Nothing says ‘I love you, Dad’ like a home-cooked meal prepared by loving hands, to make the special man in your life feel appreciated on Father’s Day. While taking Dad out for lunch can also be special, restaurants tend to be very busy on special occasions like these.  And besides, we think he will love bonding with his family at home, enjoying one of these fun Father’s Day lunch ideas instead. ALSO SEE: Father’s Day 2022: Places to go, things to do Ingredients Method This recipe was found on countryliving.com. Ingredients Method Season and bake: These ribs are baked until tender before transferring to the braai to finish.  To prepare the ribs, make sure the silver skin/membrane on the back of the racks of ribs has been removed (your butcher can do this for you).  If it hasn’t, it’s easy to do yourself. Loosen the skin with a knife until you can grab it with a piece of paper towel. Pull the membrane off and discard it.  Combine the salt, sugar, smoked paprika, garlic and onion powder, then generously season the ribs on both sides.  Place in two baking dishes or foil trays. Pour in the apple juice, cover with foil and place in the oven. Allow to bake for 2½ to 3 hours or until the ribs are tender. Make the barbecue sauce: Combine the tomato ketchup, Worcestershire sauce, vinegar, sugar, salt, smoked paprika and garlic powder in a small saucepan.  Bring to a simmer and cook for five minutes until the sauce is thick and smooth and the sugar has dissolved. Cool to room temperature. Grill and glaze: Once the ribs are tender, remove from the oven and set aside while you prepare the braai. Heat should be medium-high as you don’t want the barbecue sauce to burn before the ribs are glazed. Brush the ribs with the barbecue sauce then place on the braai.  Allow it to cook for four to five minutes per side, brushing the ribs regularly with the barbecue sauce to allow the sauce to glaze and create almost a shellac coating on the ribs.  You want it to be super sticky and glossy. Remove the ribs from the braai, allow to rest for five minutes, then slice and serve. This recipe was found onsimplydelicious-food.com. Ingredients Method This recipe was found on foodloversmarket.co.za.