Six Indian Premier League (IPL) teams are in discussions for ownership of the six franchises that will play in Cricket South Africa’s new T20 tournament early next year, CSA chief executive Pholetsi Moseki has confirmed. The proposed tournament, which is co-owned by CSA, SuperSport and former IPL chief operating officer Sundar Raman, is eager to target the lucrative Indian market. “There are big things planned for our T20 league and six IPL teams have submitted bids to invest in a franchise, as well as other Indian investors and teams from the Pakistan Super League,” Moseki said. “The global interest has exploded and we’ve had almost 30 expressions of interest received. An independent service provider, which is one of the big four global audit firms, will do an evaluation of all the bids. “This T20 league is quite key to our sustainability going forward and we have a long-term plan along with our partner SuperSport,” Moseki said. Read more: ‘Fresh and exciting’: Cricket SA launches new T20 series While the unveiling of who the successful bidders are could still take a little while, CSA are expected to announce the appointments of new executive staff like the director of cricket, chief financial officer and chief commercial officer, in the next week or so. The new T20 competition is scheduled to start on January 12, and CSA are so determined to ensure their Proteas stars are there from the start that they have requested the postponement of the ODI leg of their tour to Australia. “In terms of the FTP and big tours involving Australia and England, we’ve had to manage some challenges,” Moseki said. “But we’ve cleared our January schedule from 2024 on and want to make the best we can of this tournament. ALSO READ: Cricket SA CEO Pholetsi Moseki opens up about CSA turmoil, T20 boost “When we started our planning in November last year, most of our first meeting was about the scheduling. We considered November and December, and February as well, but January is best,” Moseki added. “There are exams in November and it can’t be December because that would be terrible for our international commitments. It is just the nature of the calendar that you are always competing against someone. Just not the IPL because no-one can compete against them. “We knew there was talk about the Emirates T20 targeting that January window as well, but we back ourselves. In January, South Africans are still in holiday mode, the varsities haven’t opened yet.”