The Bank has just announced the milestone of reaching one million accounts and revealed exciting new products, including Vitality Pay as you Gym, the introduction of the Discovery Account – available to clients of the Discovery group and enhanced travel benefits like access to The Lounge, a strategic partnership between Discovery and SAA providing airport lounge access for the Bank’s clients. Hylton Kallner, CEO of Discovery Bank, says: “The Bank has scaled quickly and built a uniquely powerful digital banking and technology capability. This is now being deployed as the de facto operating system for the Discovery Group in South Africa. “Discovery Bank’s digital payments technology, advanced security features and shared value rewards capabilities represent a unique opportunity to deliver new products and digital services to all of our clients.”    Discovery Bank has firmly established itself as the leading digital bank in South Africa, operating a full-service branchless bank through its banking app that caters for the full spectrum of the retail market, driving high levels of client engagement, utilisation and value.  This value is reflected in the one million accounts being held by over 450 000 clients, with over R11 billion in deposits and R4.5 billion in credit advances today. At its product update briefing with financial advisers today, the Bank announced its latest product enhancements: Vitality Travel was launched in March of this year, offering a single and convenient booking platform that incorporates travel partners, discounts, and other travel services through Discovery Bank.  Since its launch, in the short space of four months, Discovery Bank clients are saving on average 31% per flight. With the complete rewards and personalised experiences that Vitality Travel offers, Discovery Bank makes travel as convenient and relaxing as possible for all Discovery clients.  Making physical activity more accessible for all Discovery clients, Discovery Bank will offer Vitality Pay as you Gym to all clients, including those with a Discovery Account.  It’s easy to use and clients can access more than 170 Virgin Active and Planet Fitness clubs nationwide. Clients simply go to a club, scan the QR code at the entrance, seamlessly pay the access fee of between R75 and R100 (depending on the facility) from either a Discovery Bank transaction account, credit card or using Discovery Miles, and enjoy their workout. As an introductory special offer, Discovery clients can make unlimited use of Vitality Pay as you Gym for free between 20 June and 31 July 2022 and get a free smoothie after their first visit. Discovery clients who don’t already have a bank account, now have exclusive access to the Discovery Account.  It is a fully digital banking account at zero monthly fees, that is easy to activate. Clients can access their full Discovery product portfolio in the app and also have access to these benefits: “Our first million accounts is an endorsement of our shared-value banking model and provides us with a strong foundation to continue to disrupt the market.  “With all of the new services and capabilities announced today, our goal is to do just this and further enhance our clients’ banking, travel and payments journeys, and enable Discovery Bank as the operating system for all Discovery clients and products,” Kallner concludes. Discovery Bank is revolutionising banking, combining innovative technology and leading digital capabilities with the Group’s understanding of risk and behaviour change to create a new category of banking centred on shared value.  This unique approach is driven by Vitality Money, which measures how well clients manage their money – the better they do, the higher their Vitality Money status and the greater the value they receive, all through a shared-value stack of unprecedented and personalised rewards.