SOCCER 10 POOL OF THE DAYTuesday 14 June S10 V2 England and Germany have both stuttered through their opening three games of the Nations League but with home advantage tonight are expected to register their first victories of the competition. More details at www.soccer6.co.za. M1 Bosnia-Herzegovina vs Finland: Bosnia have collected five points from their first three Nations League games, including a draw in Helsinki last week. Finland lost in Romania on Saturday.M2 England vs Hungary: England are still to register a win in this year’s Nations League, having lost to Hungary last week at the start of the campaign. Hungary have four points in the group to England’s two.M3 Germany vs Italy: Germany’s last four matches have all been 1-1 draws. Italy’s last trip to Germany was six years ago and ended in a 1-4 defeat in Munich.M4 Liechtenstein vs Latvia: Liechtenstein will be hoping to end a run of nine successive defeats. Latvia have won their three group games to head the standings.M5 Luxembourg vs Faroe Islands: Luxembourg won in the Faroes one week ago but the islanders bounced back at the weekend with a surprise 2-1 home win over Lithuania.M6 Netherlands vs Wales: The Dutch turned out a second-string team last week and still edged Wales in Cardiff. Wales are likely to have some injury issues for this game.M7 Romania vs Montenegro: Montenegro beat Romania 2-0 at home last week at the start of the Nations League campaign. Since Romania have conceded two points and Montenegro a further one.M8 Ukraine vs Republic of Ireland: Ukraine are looking to win a third successive Nations League after already beating the Irish in Dublin. Since that loss, Ireland had a 3-0 home win over Scotland on Saturday.M9 Juventude vs Santos: With three losses in their last five games, Juventude are second from bottom in the Brazilian league. Santos come into this game on the back of three successive draws.M10 Seattle Sounders vs Vancouver Whitecaps: Both clubs have won three of their past four MLS matches. Seattle are unbeaten in their last 14 matches against Vancouver. Suggested permutation: R4.00 1 x 1 x 1 x 3 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 2,3 x 1