Microsoft Internet Explorer was the icon of browsers and choice for millions (if not billions) of people across the globe. Now, the once favourite browser has finally passed on in South Korea. As per anAFP report, the South Korean engineer who built a grave for Internet Explorer – photos of which quickly went viral – said the now-defunct web browser had made his life a misery. The country has some of the world’s fastest average internet speeds and remained bizarrely wedded to Microsoft’s Internet Explorer, which was retired by the company earlier this week after 26 years. In honour of the browser’s ‘death’, a gravestone marked with its signature ‘e’ logo was set up on the rooftop of a cafe in South Korea’s southern city of Gyeongju by engineer Kiyoung Jung, 38. “He was a good tool to use to download other browsers,” the gravestone’s inscription reads. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Images of Jung’s joke tombstone quickly spread online, with users of social media site Reddit upvoting it more than tens of thousands of times. As a software engineer and web developer, Jung told AFP he constantly “suffered” at work because of compatibility issues involving the now-defunct browser. “In South Korea, when you are doing web development work, the expectation was always that it should look good in Internet Explorer, rather than Chrome,” he said. Jung said while he was “overjoyed” by IE’s retirement, he also felt genuinely nostalgic and emotional about the browser’s demise, as he remembers its heyday – one of the reasons he was inspired to erect the gravestone. He said he was pleased by the response to his joke grave and that he and his brother (who owns the cafe) plan to leave the monument on the rooftop in Gyeongju indefinitely. “It’s been very exciting to make others laugh,” he said. On its official blog, Microsoft said opening Internet Explorer over the next few months will progressively redirect users to their new modern browser – Microsoft Edge with IE mode. Users will still see the Internet Explorer icon on their devices (such as on the taskbar or in the Start menu) but if they click to open Internet Explorer, Microsoft Edge will open instead with easy access to IE mode. Eventually, Internet Explorer will be disabled permanently as part of a future Windows Update, at which point the Internet Explorer icons on users’ devices will be removed. ALSO READ: FNB Connect named best digital Mobile Virtual Network Operator in the world Kiyoung Jung’s comments via AFP.