“Ramaphosa must go.” This was the sentiment contained in a Twitter hashtag that was trending on Thursday as the country commemorated Youth Day on 16 June. South African president Cyril Ramaphosa marked Youth Day by addressing students at a 4IR Expo in Mthatha in the Eastern Cape. The president’s visit to the province happened on the day of observing the 46 years that have passed since the 1976 student uprising. ALSO READ: Moeletsi Mbeki roasts Ramaphosa: He has ‘totally failed as a president’ There have been a number of scathing tweets under the hashtag “Ramaphosa must go.” Writer Thabo Makwakwa shared his thoughts about the reality of the challenges and the country is facing. “The reality is that the government of Ramaphosa has not attracted any investment; not created jobs, and definitely not fighting corruption. All they have successfully done is deepen the country’s external debt. Under Ramaphosa, unemployment and cost of living have skyrocketed,” tweeted Makwakwa. MUST READ: Ramaphosa can’t be blamed for everything going wrong in SA – analyst Last week, former President Jacob Zuma’s daughter Dudu Zuma-Sambudla also shared a tweet about the unstable pillars of democracy. The photo showed the pillars of the legislature, executive, judiciary and the media cracking. She said they will meet Ramaphosa “in the streets.” “A desperate act by a desperate useless president … last kicks of a dying Buffalo. We will meet you on the streets!!! Ramaphosa’s corruption-free image was decimated earlier this month after former State Security Agency (SSA) boss Arthur Fraser laid criminal charges against the president for allegedly concealing a $4 million robbery that took place on his private Phala Phala game farm in 2020. The former spy boss said the president concealed the crime from authorities while the suspects were abducted and questioned before being paid off for their silence on the crime. The narrative surrounding the robbery has not probed critical questions that need to be answered by Fraser and the president himself. Ramaphosa has refused to provide any details of the robbery, saying he would like to leave the whole matter to the due processes that must unfold However, this did not stop Fraser from furthering his assistance to law enforcement authorities in the probe against the president.  The Hawks confirmed on Wednesday that Fraser has agreed to provide additional information to the crime unit in its investigation against president Ramaphosa. Fraser has assisted law enforcement officials in the criminal case he laid against Ramaphosa following the theft. Earlier this week, the African National Congress (ANC) said Ramaphosa would not step aside and confirmed that he would voluntarily present himself to the party’s integrity commission following a National Working Committee (NWC) meeting. The governing party said the ANC president would be afforded the opportunity to address the allegations by Fraser. Ramaphosa said the ANC’s step aside rule would be enforced against him if he is charged. On Monday, in his weekly newsletter, Ramaphosa said lots of work needed to be done to build a better South Africa with many commenting that the country would be better without him. ALSO READ: A nose for trouble: Dudu Zuma ‘smells another unrest’, takes swipes at Ramaphosa