The idea of snuggling up in a warm blanket with some hot chocolate may sound like the best weekend plans for some people this winter, however, if you want to beat the cold and get outside with the whole family, there are plenty of activities available.  This weekend gig guide is suitable for indoor, and outdoor events.  Encounters Festival 44 Stanley has become one of the hippest places to be, known for having the best spots for coffee, cocktails and artisanal products. The location has a few events this winter.  The Encounters South African International Documentary Festival at The Bioscope will be available for an entire week.  Date: 24 June – 3 July To book and view the full programme click here. Threshold If you are an art lover, or just feel like visiting a gallery, this new exhibition titled Threshold showcases artists of the International Print Exchange Programme (IPEP) India in partnership with The Artists’ Press. The gallery opens this Saturday, 25 June.  Date: 25 June – 20 July  For more information, click here.  Oppiland Festival  This festival, organised by Lefra Productions and the Stable Inn Conference Center, is the largest ever planned music festival for Gauteng and will take place over three days catering for all audiences from Rock and Afrikaans to Country.  The event is also suitable for the whole family as there will be flea markets, children’s entertainment and food and drink.  Date: 24 June – 26 June For more information, visit www.oppiland.co.za.  READ NEXT: Gauteng’s biggest music festival ever happening this weekend! Youth month concert YFM is the country’s biggest youth station and they are hosting a LYFE music concert as part of celebrating Youth Month.  Early bird tickets are sold out, however, general tickets are still available, priced at R250 on webtickets. The music lineup includes Blxckie, Samthing Soweto, Blaq Diamond, Pabi Cooper, K.O and Felo Le Tee.  Date: 25 June  Place: Altitude Beach, Fourways, Johannesburg  Time: 2pm till late Wine and Food Festival  The Pick n Pay Wine & Food Festival is going to be wine and food enthusiasts’ dream. Attendees will be able to taste various wines on offer, and sample food from the Pick n Pay Food Market – ranging from local cheeses to tender pieces of meat.  There will be live music to soak up all the food and wine.  Date: 2 July Where: Waterfall Park at Mall of Africa For more information, click here.  Wine tasting with the kids Your kids won’t be left out when the adults go to Nederburg’s wine tasting, as the wine farm is having a fun chocolate milk drink tasting paired with cookies for children.  Nederburg’s restaurant The Manor also has cupcake decoration workshops, and picnic boxes with a delicious collection of snacks for the whole family.  There’s also Jenga and a range of lawn games, jungle gyms and a zip-line, tree house, swings and more to keep the children occupied.   Date: Daily Price: The milk and cookie pairings and cupcake decorating are priced at R95 each. Bookings are essential, click here to find out more.  Anything other than the Durban July As people will flock to Durban on 2 July for the Durban July, there are other events in the province to enjoy.  For something laid back and relaxed, the Garden Show is taking place in the warmest city to be in in Winter.  The East Coast Radio House & Garden Show will bring over 350 exhibitors together for 10 days at the Durban Exhibition Centre.  Think Builders DIY Pavilion, Kitchen Zone, and The Gardener LIVE section.  Date: 24 June – 3 July Contact 031 303 5941 for more information.  ALSO READ: Despite flooding ‘we are ready’, says EThwekwini ahead of Durban July 2022 Compiled by Sandisiwe Mbhele