Today – Thursday 2 June 2022 – is the 153rd day of the year. It’s Queen Elizebeth II’s Platinum Jubilee. She was crowned as queen of England at the Westminster Abbey on this day in 1953. People are also encouraged to leave the office earlier today – no jokes, keep reading. Here’s what else you need to know about the second of June. Goverment will be launching Youth Month in Soweto today under the auspices of the Department of Women, Youth and Person With Disabilities (DWYPD).  It’s the perfect opportunity to highlight challenges faced by the youth, present possible solutions through dialogues, as well as to showcase opportunities available for the youth. ALSO READ: White citizens least affected while black youth have no prospects At 10am, Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula will engage rail stakeholders and the business sector on the National Rail Policy White Paper. The African National Congress (ANC) will also host a briefing at 11am on the state of readiness for the 10th Provincial Conference in Limpopo. The NA Programming Committee is scheduled to consider its programme and the Bills before the House and Committee schedules.  At 2pm, the NA hybrid plenary will debate the National Health Amendment Bill and the Disaster Management Amendment Bill. The NCOP’s virtual plenary at 2pm will have two policy debates on Budget Votes – the first debate will be on Budget Vote 28 (Police), Budget Vote 21 (Civilian Secretariat) and Budget Vote 29 (IPID).  The second debate will be on Budget Vote 17 (Higher Education and Training). Nelson Mandela and FW de Klerk held discussions in Pretoria on 2 June 1990 to discuss progress made in the implementation of the Groote Schuur Minutes. Albertina Sisulu – born on 21 October 1918 at Xolobeni in Transkei, now Eastern Cape – died at her Linden home, Johannesburg at the age of 92 on 2 June 2011.  Quote of the Day: Women are the people who are going to relieve us from all this oppression and depression.   Sisulu – who was also known as the ‘Mother of the Nation’ – was a nurse and one of the most important leaders of anti-Apartheid resistance in South Africa.  ALSO READ: ANC mourns after Sisulu grandson dies of Covid complications If today’s Wordle is tripping you up, fret not; we’ve got your back. Wordle 348 might trip you up, so you’ll have to choose wisely. Before you give up, though, try these tips: Today’s Wordle starts with the Letter S. It contains four consonants, one vowel, and two syllables. None of the letters are repeated twice. Synonym: Ostentatious. Cyril pushes his own agendas PG writes:  With the ANC elective conference in December, we’re going to see Cyril Ramaphosa pushing more populist agendas as he seeks to be elected for a second term. He is more concerned with ANC matters than what is good for SA. BEE and cadre deployment has destroyed the SOEs.  Not to mention the Post Office and Eskom that are broken. Trooping the Colour is a ceremony performed by regiments of the British Army dating back to 1748. Every year, the Queen travels down The Mall, a road in Westminster, to observe the tradition. The impressive display of pageantry is a grandiose parade with the Queen’s troops, The Household Division, on Horse Guards.  More than 1,400 officers along with 200 horses, and some 400 musicians partake in the royal procession and ceremony, escorted by the Household Cavalry. If you’ve always dreamt of leaving the office earlier, today is for you. Leave The Office Early Day was created by Laura Stack, a specialist in employee productivity. In 2004, Stack noted how Americans worked nearly 50 hours a week – totalling 350 hours a year more than most Europeans She thus created the day to raise awareness of the benefits of increased workplace productivity. Use the day to make small adjustments in the way you approach work. Rocky Road Day is a day dedicated to the eating of Rocky Road ice cream; a dessert made from marshmallows, nuts, and chocolate. In addition to being an ice cream flavour, Rocky Road is actually a popular dessert that is even older than ice cream.  But that’s not all! Thursday is also: