Awards season is in full swing in South Africa as the South African Music Awards has released their nominations for this years 28th installment of the SAMAs. The organisation took to Twitter on Tuesday evening, where they announced the different categories of awards to be given to artists, as well as the artists who are nominated in each category.  The artists whose name has been repeatedly seen on the nominations lists is singer and record producer, Zakes Bantwini, who has bagged seven nominations in this years awards.  The musician released a dance album named Ghetto King some time late last year, which included some popular tracks such as Osama, Uzalo and Abantu, that went viral throughout the country and landed him in the top positions on many music charts.  This album as well as the songs featured on it are the reason why Zakes secured a seat in the SAMA nominations for the Best Collaboration, Best Dance Album, Album of the Year, Best Engineered Album of the Year, Male Artist of the Year, and Record of the Year. ALSO READ: Why Zakes Bantwini chose the men of The Wife for his latest music video Other hitmakers who have been nominated for this years SAMA’s are Makhadzi for Best Collaboration, Blxckie and Emtee for Best Hip Hop Album, Focalistic, Kamo Mphela and Young Stunna for Best Amapiano Album, and Pangea for Best Classical/Instrumental Album.  According to the organisation, this years South African Music Awards has made history by receiving the highest number of entries since the awards were established in 1995. “Some 1395 submissions were received by the close of the call for entries at midnight on Thursday, 3 February 2022. Last year, the SAMAs earned 1163 entries, which marks an increase of over 230 this year.  “This exponential growth augurs well for the future of the music industry and the role SAMA continues to play,” said the organisation. Album of the Year Female Artist of the Year Male Artist of the Year Duo/Group of the Year Newcomer of the Year Best Rock Album Best Pop Album Beste Kontemporere Musiek Album Beste Pop Album Best Alternative Music Album Best R&B/Soul Album Best Hip Hop Album Best Kwaito Album Best Dance Album Best Traditional Faith Music Album Best Contemporary Faith Music Album Best Traditional Album Best African Indigenous Faith Music Album Best Maskandi Best Jazz Album Best Classical/Instrumental Album Best Afro Pop Album Rest of Africa Award Best Collaboration Best produced music video Best Produced Album of the Year Best Engineered Album of the Year Remix of the Year Best Reggae Album Best Amapiano Album Best Gqom Album