SOCCER 10 POOL OF THE DAYThursday 9 June S10 V3 Egypt were runners-up at the last Cup of Nations tournament and are expected to win away against Ethiopia and move closer to extending their record number of appearances at the finals. More details at www.soccer6.co.za. M1 Ethiopia vs Egypt: Ethiopia host this match in Malawi because of stadium problems. Both countries were at the last Cup of Nations tournament in Cameroon where Egypt finished runners-up.M2 Guinea- Bissau vs Sao Tome e Principe: Two Lusophone countries meet in the Cup of Nations qualifiers after Sao Tome were restored to the field on appeal, having been disqualified for breaking COVID rules when they beat Mauritius in the March playoffs.M3 Saudi Arabia vs Venezuela: World Cup warm-up for Saudi Arabia in Murcia where Colombia beat the Saudis at the weekend. Venezuela failed to qualify for Qatar.M4 Oman vs New Zealand: New Zealand are warming up for their World Cup playoff against Costa Rica in Doha with this friendly against Oman. It is also being played in Qatar.M5 Greece vs Cyprus: Greece have 12 wins in 15 past clashes with Cyprus with one draw and two defeats, the last 21 years ago.M6 Kosovo vs Northern Ireland: Kosovo have shown impressive improvement butv lost their last game to Greece on Sunday. Northern Ireland have a single win from their past five outings.M7 Malta vs Estonia: Malta have won three of their last four matches. Estonia have won one of their past seven fixtures.M8 North Macedonia vs Georgia: North Macedonia won 1-0 away over Georgia in European Championship qualification two years ago. In the last Nations League these sides were also in the same group and played out two 1-1 draws.M9 Norway vs Slovenia: Norway are back home after beating neighbours Sweden 2-1 in the Nations League at the weekend. Slovenia are yet to win in four internationals played this year.M10 Guinea vs Malawi: Guinea narrowly lost to Egypt in Cup of Nations qualifying Group D while Malawi edged Ethiopia 2-1 to make a winning start to their campaign to get to the 2023 finals in the Ivory Coast. Suggested permutation:R16.00 3 x 1 x 1 x 2,3 x 1 x 2,3 x 2,3 x 1 x 1 x 1