Actors, media and industry leaders were all happy to be back on the blue carpet at The Bay Hotel, celebrating the arts with films and popcorn galore between 23 and 26 March and finally ending off on a high note with the official Silwerskermfees Awards on Saturday evening. Short films, feature films and panel discussions were at the order of the day at the festival, coupled with views across Camps Bay and Blaauwklippen wines that never seemed to run empty. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The winners of the Silwerskermfees Awards prove that South Africa and its arts are ready to take on the world when it comes to the art of film, with the feature film, Gaia taking home the most awards.  In this feature film, an injured forest ranger on a routine mission is saved by two off-the-grid survivalists, but his gratitude turns into suspicion and fear when the son and his renegade father start revealing their occultic devotion to the forest. READ: ‘Klein Karoo’ actor’s daughter proves Afrikaans is a colourful language Best male co-actor: Albert Pretorius for his role in Stiekyt Best female co-actor: June van Merch for her role in Barakat Best script: The feature film, Barakat Best ensemble: The short film, Skyn Best existing work: Ekstasis Audience favourite: The short film, Leemtes en Leegheid Best director, short film: D.W. Smith (Diana Mills Smith) for the short film, My Beskermer Best actor, short film: Marlo Minnaar for Aan/Af Best actress, short film: Carla Smith for her role in Skyn Best short film: Leemtes en Leegheid. This film will also be screened at the Berlinale Co-Production Visitors Market that takes place in Berlin next year. Special nomination: My Beskermer Best director, feature film: Jaco Bouwer, Gaia Best actor, feature film: Paul du Toit for Stiekyt Best actress, feature film: Vinette Ebrahim for Barakat Best feature film: Gaia Best original music for a short film: Ryno Posthumus for Bennie Bingo Best production design, short film: Baber Best short film director: Regardt Visser for Die Horries Best cinematography, short film: Justin Youens for Baber Best script, short film: Jordy Sank and Terence Makapan for Leemtes en Leegheid Best original music, feature film: Kyle Shepherd for Barakat Best costume design: Ayesha Khatieb for Barakat Best makeup and hair styling: Sulani Saayman for Gaia Best production design: Sumaya Wicomb for Barakat Best sound engineering, feature film: Tim Pringle for Gaia Best cinematography, feature film: Eduan Kitching for Stiekyt Best director, feature film: Leon Visser for Gaia