In a move predicted by some motoring scribes as having been imminent, Isuzu has announced that the almost decade old current sixth generation D-Max will live-on alongside the long awaited new model in a reduced capacity workhorse role. Set to be called D-Max GEN 6 as a way of differentiating it from the all-new seventh generation reportedly due this month, the model will continue to be built locally at Isuzu’s plant in Port Elizabeth for South Africa and export African countries. “Our strategy is to support Isuzu’s objectives by retaining GEN 6 models which have performed very well in the workhorse segment of the market,” Isuzu’s Senior Vice-President of Technical Operations, Dominic Rimmer said. ALSO READ: Isuzu commences new D-Max testing but halts local debut due to Covid-19 “In addition to boosting our fleet business, we intend to increase LCV exports into key left and right-hand drive markets within the Rest of Africa”. The effective model restructure will see the D-Max range cut to five models for South African with the GEN 6 line-up consisting out of three singles and two double cabs. No longer offered are the 2.5 and 3.0-litre X-Rider models, the extended cabs or the top-spec LX with a further omission being the option of four-wheel-drive. For exports market, four-wheel-drive will be provided as an option on the single and standard on the double cab. Models shipped to left-hand-drive African markets though will be equipped with the all-paw gripping system as standard. Up front, the South African market GEN 6 will be powered by two versions of the venerable 2.5 D-TEQ turbodiesel engine; the LEED unit in the standard and Fleetside single cab rated at 58kW/170Nm and the high-output in the Fleetside single cab and Hi-Ride double cab that punches out 100kW/320Nm. Standard across all models is a five-speed manual gearbox with the double cab having the option of a five-speed automatic. The transmission choices are not replicated on the export models where all are equipped with the manual regardless of the location of the steering gear. Available for ordering soon, all of the South African-spec D-Max GEN 6 models are sold with a five-year/120 000 km warranty as well as a five-year/90 000 km service plan.