Comedian Trevor Noah is well respected in his field and it came as no surprise when he shared a few words with Will Smith after the dramatic scenes on the Oscars stage this week.  On Tuesday morning (South African time), Will apologised to comedian Chris Rock for smacking him during the Oscars ceremony on Sunday evening.  “I would like to publicly apologise to you, Chris. I was out of line and I was wrong. I am embarrassed and my actions were not indicative of the man I want to be.  “Violence in all of its forms is poisonous and destructive. My behaviour at last night’s Academy Awards was unacceptable and inexcusable,” Smith wrote on his Instagram apology.  ALSO READ: Will apologises to Chris Rock- Academy launches probe During the ceremony, Smith was comforted by Denzel Washington, Bradley Cooper and Samuel L Jackson after the moment. Washington has been applauded for the words he shared with Will after he smacked Chris. “At the highest moment be careful that’s when the devil comes for you,” Denzel told Will.   Noah was in the audience to witness the moment live, and tweeted his shock that it was all real and not scripted.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. US media reported that The Daily Show host shared a few words with Smith, an actor he has interviewed on his show in the past.  The two celebrities had a long conversation at the Vanity Fair after-party, TMZ reports. Many photos circulated showing how Will was still emotional when he got to the party taking pictures with tears in his eyes. Trevor came up to the actor who won Best Actor for his role in King Richard.  The two shared a hug and tried to talk over the loud music at the event, and when their reported minute long conversation was done, they embraced and took some photos together.  It didn’t sit well with some when videos and images of Will celebrating and dancing at the Vanity Fair party circulated despite the drama hanging over his head.  Critics of Noah brought up the issue he had with Kanye West after he criticised the rapper for the harassment towards his ex Kim Kardashian. RELATED: Kanye West suspended from Instagram, Trevor Noah calls him out Commentators called Noah a hypocrite for showing support for Will and not Kanye who has publicly struggled with his mental health.