A member of the Lenasia Community Policing Forum (CPF) and his son-in-law have been arrested in Lenasia in connection with the recent spate of kidnappings in the suburb.  A source close to the arrests told The Citizen the man was handcuffed on Monday evening.  “Further arrests today are linked to recent Lenasia kidnappings. The suspects are now linked to at least four confirmed kidnappings and the suspects that were arrested today pointed out where they basically left their ransom money.”  “It was found that the ransom money was found in a CPF member’s house. The CPF member had knowledge of who the person was that dropped off the money and where the money came from,” the source said.  The source also said that unlicensed ammunition was also found at the CPF member’s house.  “The CPF member has been arrested and an additional sum of money was found at the CPF member’s house. The CPF member is also living very close to one of the suspects, Faizal Charloos, and also had knowledge of some of the raids and what they were linked to.”  “But despite his knowledge of those raids and the suspicion of the money coming to his house, he didn’t question what the money was there for and on those grounds, we are charging him for involvement in the ransom kidnapping cases,” said the source.  The source said they anticipate additional arrests throughout the night, adding that this arrest provides the link to the alleged involvement of CPF members in the recent spate of kidnapping and ransom cases. Meanwhile, Lenasia residents have accused the chairman of the Lenasia CPF Ebrahim Asvat of being corrupt and allegedly involved in illegal activities, including the latest spate of crime that hit Lenasia last week. ALSO READ: WATCH: NHCPA condemns murder of Soweto doctor as footage of shooting emerges In a message shared with The Citizen, the angry residents called for Asvat to be investigated by the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid). The residents allege that Asvat has been working with alleged Mozambican crime kingpin Faizal Charloos, who was arrested by police on Friday along with five other suspects, including his wife Sadyia. The Mozambican businessman was arrested by police on Friday along with five other suspects, including his wife. During the police raids on houses in Lenasia, Lawley, Brackenhurst and Benoni, which are allegedly linked to Charloos and three of his alleged accomplices, police rescued kidnapped Gauteng businessman, 34-year-old Luqman Kazi. ALSO READ: R160m fraud: 10 directors set to resign after father and son allegedly stole millions from investment company