The former prime minister of Togo, Gilbert Houngbo, has been elected as the new Director-General of the International Labour Organisation (ILO). Houngbo is currently President of the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD). He was elected by the ILO’s Governing Body, comprising representatives of governments, workers and employers, during their meeting in Geneva. Gilbert is the first African elected to head the tripartite organisation which is the oldest in the United Nations There were five candidates for the position including, Kang Kyung-wha of the Republic of Korea, Muriel Pénicaud of France, Greg Vines of Australia and Mthunzi Mdwaba of South Africa Mdwaba is the CEO of business consultancy TZoro IBC and the chairperson of Productivity SA. Although the government withdrew its nomination for Mdwaba’s candidacy, he contested the post with the support of some organisations and countries. Gilbert paid tribute to the ILO after being nominated. “Let me anticipate by paying tribute to your unbending effort to place the ILO and the human-centred feature or work at the centre of global policy debates thereby demonstrating decent work and social justice represent the only path to truly sustainable development and peace.” Gilbert said the outcome of the election carries a rich symbolism. “Your choice today fulfils the aspirations of a young African boy whose humble upbringing turned into a lifelong quest for social justice. It also marks for an entire region, a region that did not have a seat at a table when the ILO constitution was drafted.” “Its readiness the lead the way in a united effort to act on the principle enshrined in the Declaration of Philadelphia that labour is not a commodity,” Gilbert said.   The new Director-General’s term will begin on 1 October 2022 taking over from the current Director-General, Guy Ryder, from the United Kingdom who held the office since 2012. ALSO READ: Ukrainian UN ambassador lambasts SA’s neutral stance on Russia’s war