Adjusting to the new normal is difficult and to add to the stress, South Africans are now expected to contend with Eskom’s last-minute load shedding rotations and random blackouts.  With all the schedules and stages, it’s near impossible to remember what to do in order to prevent damages. Need some help in saving your valuables? We’ve compiled this useful guide of dos and don’ts.  Hang the proposed load shedding times on your fridge. This way, power outages won’t take you by surprise.  Use apps to keep track of your schedule, such as:  Dr Lucia Anelich, food safety expert, says refrigerated food should be safe as long as the outage is for no more than four hours and the fridge door is kept closed. If your home is hit by load shedding and you have a fixed-line broadband connection, you can prevent downtime with a UPS or battery backup to power your router and CPE. Most network providers have their own power backup solutions to keep their broadband products online during load shedding. That said, you should ensure your computer, laptop, phone or iPad is fully charged so you can browse the internet or stream your favourite shows. Simply stock up on candles, torches, books and board games to help yourself and those restless little ones endure the time in the dark.  It’s also a good time for storytelling by candlelight. Prevent your electrical appliances from getting damaged when the power comes back on by unplugging all appliances during the blackout.  It’s advisable to do this even if no load shedding is scheduled, in case Eskom implements an outage at the last second and you can’t get home in time. Power outages also mean stores can’t use their card machines.  So, if you haven’t prepared snacks ahead of time and need to dash out to your nearest convenience store, it’s best to keep cash on hand. For electric gates, always carry a spare manual override key. Follow these and other tips accessible online and it won’t feel as though you’re living in the Dark Ages when the next Eskom power outage hits. ALSO READ: Six ways to keep boredom at bay during load shedding