Musician Big Zulu’s kind gesture has been met with suspicion after he shared that he had gone to visit artist Esther Mahlangu after she was recently attacked and robbed.  In his caption, which was originally written in IsiZulu, Big Zulu said “it was a great joy and blessing to finally arrive at the courtyard of my grandmother Esther Mahlangu’s house.”He also shared that she agreed to paint her signature style onto a pair of Carvela shoes for him.  Big Zulu’s visit comes after Esther Mahlangu was attacked and robbed of cash as well as a firearm at her Mpumalanga homestead earlier this month. Mahlangu’s world-renowned work has seen her land lucrative deals and collaborate with well-known brands such as BMW and Nike. Her impressive artwork was used in the ‘art car’ BMW luxury 7 series model in 2017. ALSO READ: Ndebele artist Esther Mahlangu assaulted, robbed in her home According to provincial police spokesperson Brigadier Selvy Mohlala, the incident happened as Mahlangu prepared to take a nap at her home in Siyabuswa. “She was alone in the house and locked all doors to take a nap. Strangely, she noticed a man unknown to her inside her house. “The man then allegedly grabbed her, punched her in the face before tying both her hands with a cable, and tried to strangle her until she reportedly became unconscious,” Mohlala said. The 87-year-old could not recall what happened, but after gaining consciousness she realised that her home had been ransacked. The attacker took cash and her firearm from the safe. Mahlangu sustained bruises to her face. People seemed to think that Big Zulu had ulterior motives in visiting the world-renowned artist and even sided with controversial vlogger Slik Talk who accused the musician of attaching himself to well-known people in an effort to raise his public profile. Others took issue with the fact that he made this visit despite not being related to Mahlangu.  READ NEXT: Is Big Zulu Mzansi’s most eligible bachelor? Compiled by Kaunda Selisho, additional reporting by Getrude Makhafola