Yesterday was the first day of kykNET’s annual Silwerskermfees , hosted at The Bay Hotel in Camps Bay and even amidst Covid-19 protocols and 50% capacity, one thing is certain: Celebrities, media, industry leaders and fans are all similarly excited about the fact that the annual arts festival is back. It’s been two years since the last festival and due to the Covid-pandemic, kykNET is only able to host the festival again this year – with the added bonus of it being hybrid as well this time around. The festival kicked off with numerous short films, including the award-winning What did you dream written by Karabo Lediga and last night two feature films – Beurtkrag and Indemnity – were screened in both The Bay Hotel’s Rotunda and at Theatre on The Bay. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The feature films were followed by drinks on the deck overlooking Camps Bay, with celebrities enjoying the opportunity to mingle after such a long time of not being able to share in events and celebrations such as the annual Silwerskermfees. READ: Six feature films to watch at this year’s Silwerskerm Festival Last night’s blue carpet saw celebrities like Beurtkrag’s main actors, Ivan Botha and Donnalee Roberts, as well as the movie’s director, Jozua Malherbe and his wife, Rolanda Marais. Indemnity’s Gail Mabalane wore a beautiful African-inspired black and white suit for the occasion and her fellow actor, Jarrid Geduld also graced the blue carpet, posing for photos with his girlfriend, Vashti Prins (who stars in Suidooster) by his side. Actress Nicole Fortuin was also seen on the blue carpet, posing in a bright red dress alongside the Indemnity stars. Mila Guy, who can be seen in the short film, Skyn has also been having a ball at The Bay Hotel, sharing selfies after an early morning swim in the sea. Klein Karoo 2 actors, Marciel Hopkins and Tim Theron have also been spotted, as well as Antoinette Louw, Paul du Toit from the film, Stiekyt and many others. Today – the second day of the festival – alsoholds much excitement, with short films like The Boy and the Robin, Ulwandle, Sleep Mode, Baber, Bennie Bingo, Leemtes en Leegheid, Sporadies Nomadies, Skyn and Bergie. Feature films that are due to be screened tonight include Down so long, Stiekyt and Sons of the Sea.