SOCCER 10 POOL OF THE DAYThursday 31 March S10 V2 Former winners Lyon and Wolfsburg are both chasing a place in the UEFA Women’s Champions League tonight as the many of the world’s top female players are in action. More details at www.soccer6.co.za. M1 Addis Ababa Ketema vs Bahadar: Addis Ababa have lost six of their last seven games and are in relegation trouble in Ethiopia. Bahadar have drawn their last three outings.M2 Esbjerg vs Hobro: Esbjerg have managed a single point from their past four league matches. Hobro have won three of their previous four.M3 VfL Wolfsburg (W) vs Arsenal (W): The first leg of this UEFA Women’s Champions League quarter-final tie ended in a 1-1 draw in London.M4 Sporting Gagnoa vs ASEC Abidjan: Gagnoa have won four of their past 20 matches against ASEC, who are unbeaten in their opening 10 league games of the season.M5 Bridgewater United (W) vs Cardiff City: Bridgewater have lost their last two home games in the Women’s National League. Cardiff City ladies won 5-0 away at bottom placed Hounslow at the weekend.M6 Chorley (W) vs Bradford City (W): Chorley have drawn three of their past five matches. Bradford won three of their previous four fixtures.M7 Olympique Lyonnais (W) vs Juventus (W): Second leg of the UEFA Women’s Champions League quarter-final tie with Juventus enjoying a narrow 2-1 lead from the first leg.M8 Colo Colo vs Union La Calera: Three wins in a row have catapulted Colo Colo up to second in the Chilean league. Union La Calera have gone six games without defeat but four of them were drawn.M9 Once Caldas vs Deportes Quindío: Once Caldas host second division opposition in the cup in Colombia. Quindío were 2-1 winners last season at home to Once Caldas before they got relegated.M10 Deportivo Pasto vs Independiente Santa Fe: Deportivo Pasto have won two of 12 games and sit second from bottom in the Colombian league. Independiente were runners-up in the Copa Colombia in 2014 and 2015. Suggested permutation: R2.00 1 x 1 x 1 x 3 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 3