Kyle Verreynne spent so long worming his way into the Proteas batting line-up, and has now scored a Test century and averages 45 in ODIs with four fifties in nine innings, so it is unfortunate that his place is still not secure, depending on the permutations of the bowling attack, as South Africa go into the decisive third ODI against Bangladesh in Centurion on Wednesday (1pm start). Verreynne finished off the chase with aplomb in the second ODI at the Wanderers with a polished 58 not out, but the hamstring injury that has ruled Wayne Parnell out of the deciding match means the reserve wicketkeeper and in-form batsman might still miss out at SuperSport Park. South Africa’s bowlers were not able to make early inroads into the Bangladesh batting in the first ODI in Centurion, as the tourists turned an opening stand of 95 into a record total of 314/7. ALSO READ: Proteas attack eager to fire again in ODI series decider All-rounder Parnell was brought into the attack at the Wanderers to provide more venom and took a wicket in his second over, before leaving the field in his next over. But the Proteas also fielded only five bowlers in the second ODI, which left them vulnerable. So Parnell may in effect be replaced on Wednesday by two bowlers, meaning a specialist batter has to go. “As we saw at the Wanderers, having just five bowlers can prove costly,” Verreynne conceded on Tuesday, “and if we play a sixth bowler then more often than not it’s me who will miss out. “I understand that, so it is quite difficult to get a fixed position and cement my spot. It’s about being adaptable and able to bat in any spot. I need to be ready to play in the middle-order or at the top. “I think I’ve shown that ability, but our batting line-up is very strong. But that hundred in the Test in New Zealand (earlier this season) has done wonders for me and I feel more comfortable now at international level.” ALSO READ: ‘Not our best’, admits Proteas skipper Tryon after first defeat The 24-year-old said the stellar performances of Kagiso Rabada (5/39) and Quinton de Kock (62 off 41) in winning at the Wanderers and levelling the series showed that the Indian Premier League players in the squad were still fully focused on winning the series despite their imminent departure for India that will see them miss the Tests against Bangladesh in Durban and Gqeberha. “I don’t think there has ever been any question over their commitment to the Proteas,” Verreynne said. “Obviously they’re going to miss some international cricket when the IPL is on, but I certainly feel they are fully committed to their duty to the country and their minds are not in any other space. “In the last ODI, KG and Quinny’s performances were particularly good and they showed their full focus is on making sure we win the ODI series.”