The kidneys are a pair of bean-shaped organs found at the back of the body at about the level of the waist.  Each kidney holds thousands of filtering units.  As our blood moves through them, they filter waste products and extra water out and these are released in our urine. Paediatric nephrologist Professor Errol Gottlich says: “Kidney disease is silent, meaning it often develops without any noticeable symptoms.  By the time most people become aware that their kidneys are failing, they will already have lost 50% of their kidney function. “Kidneys also balance our fluid levels ensuring we don’t become over-hydrated or dehydrated. They normalise electrolytes and blood pressure, assist in calcium metabolism and prevent anaemia.” “Our kidneys are essential for a normal, healthy lifestyle. The kidneys fulfil many roles, the most important of which is excreting toxins out of the body in the urine.” Paediatrician Dr Nokukhanya Ngubane-Mwandla adds, “The kidneys have multiple important functions in the body, including controlling acid-base homeostasis, water and electrolyte balance and blood pressure. They also produce certain hormones important for production of red blood cells and bone mineralization.” Taking care of your kidneys is as simple as leading a healthy lifestyle.  Professor Gottlich recommends that people do the following: Discovery Health’s data show that around 75% of renal (kidney) failure is a result of diabetes or hypertension (high blood pressure). Data from the National Kidney Foundation mirrors this with up to 65% of kidney failure in South African adults being attributed to hypertension and up to 25% due to Type 2 Diabetes.” “Uncontrolled diabetes can damage the blood vessels in your kidneys and can gradually decrease the functionality of this vital organ. And untreated high blood pressure experience damage to their kidney tissue as a result of blood vessels being exposed to a higher than normal blood pressure,” adds Professor Gottlich. Dr Ngubane-Mwandla adds, “There is also a relatively high incidence of kidney problems among South African children. Some of these problems are congenital, which means that children are born with them, but several conditions are caused by malnourishment and gastric issues.” This passionate doctor adds, “It would be great to implement screening programs at schools or at primary health care facilities – in particular to ensure blood pressure and urine screening – to detect the early onset of kidney disease, especially those born prematurely, at a low birth weight or who have a family history of kidney disease.” The National Kidney Foundation notes that up to 80% of chronic kidney failure may be preventable, making it vital to keep up regular screening checks that will identify signs of chronic diseases like kidney disease and others, as early as possible, in adults and children alike. The good news is that, for most people, screening for kidney disease can be done as part of regular health check-ups. “It’s really as simple as going to your primary healthcare provider and doing a screening test for high blood pressure, blood glucose levels and kidney functionality,” says Professor Gottlich. “Essentially, your urine is an easily accessed window to your kidney health. A dipstick into the urine sample will show markers of possible kidney health issues.” Once a person has chronic kidney disease, they will need to undergo chronic dialysis (an average of three sessions per week), explains Professor Gottlich. Patients may either undergo: “In addition to dialysis treatment, it is critical that patients live a healthier lifestyle and take prescribed medicine to control blood pressure, improve anaemia and bone health,” adds Professor Gottlich. Chronic kidney disease is a complex illness that is expensive to treat. References National Kidney Foundation of South Africa Paediatrician puts spotlight on kidney conditions in South African children Discovery Health Medical Scheme Kidney Care Programme Organ Donor Foundation Disclaimer Discovery Health Medical Scheme, registration number 1125, is regulated by the Council for Medical Schemes and administered by Discovery Health (Pty) Ltd, registration number 1997/013480/07, an authorised financial services provider