Parliament was expected to debate two separate motions of no confidence against President Cyril Ramaphosa and his cabinet. The first, however, has been postponed, as a legal wrangle between parliament and the Speaker has meant it can not proceed. DA leader John Steenhuisen has started with his party’s motion against the country’s cabinet, and suggested that ANC stands for Absolutely No Consequences, saying no matter how poor their performance minsters are simply reshuffled and the size of SA’s parliament is simply a means to employ “unemployable cadres”. NOW READ: ATM’s no-confidence motion against Ramaphosa postponed We will share live updates below. The live blog may take a few seconds to load. Refresh the page if the space below remains blank. Scroll down for the live stream.    NA Speaker Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula accepted the party’s request for a roll-call voting procedure in the motion against the cabinet, and said in a statement:  “According to the rules on virtual sittings, members are entitled to cast their votes either electronically, by voice, or by having their votes recorded by their respective whips”. Speaking to Newzroom Afrika as well on Wednesday morning, DA leader John Steenhuisen said the ministers’ participation in the debate and voting will ”taint” the process. Steenhuisen indicated that the DA was “pleased” with the Speaker’s decision to accept the use of a manual roll call for the vote.  In order to get a 50% + 1 rule today, the Democratic Alliance (DA) will have to get a majority vote from all elected members of Parliament present today.  With 400 members in attendance, the party needs 201 votes to be counted in favour of the no-confidence motion against the president.  Unfortunately for the DA, opposition parties only hold 170 seats in the National assembly and with the African Transformation Movement (ATM) refusing to partake in proceedings, it might be a session. The Western Cape High Court’s Judge Rosheni Allie struck the party’s urgent application off the roll, and Mapisa-Nqakula rejected the party’s request to postpone the motion. NOW READ: ATM refuses to participate in no-confidence motion Additional reporting by Molefe Seeletsa.