Abidas Frail Care Centre has been forced to close its doors after the Gauteng Social Development received allegations of poor treatment of pensioners at the centre, and disagreeable work conditions. The department looked into the allegations and discovered that beneficiaries were being physically abused, lived in ailing conditions, and that staff do not have qualifications and skills needed to care for them. Abidas Frail Care Centre accommodates the elderly who are frail, semi frail, and independent.  The facility claims to be registered as an NPO, and has been operating for more than 10 years.  However, the Gauteng department has no records of its existence. The facility does not have occupational  health and safety compliance certificates, namely a Health  Permit, Food Acceptability Certificate.  The department also mentioned that Abidas was not a proper functioning centre, as it did not have an approved menu to address the dietary needs of the beneficiaries. ALSO READ: Bipolar disorder should be destigmatised to save lives Based on the department’s investigations, the rights and safety of older persons are not protected and have been compromised. “It has been established that the beneficiaries live in exceptionally disagreeable conditions. The facility is overcrowded with limited ventilation, and this includes the kitchen. “Other essential norms and standards required for the running of such a facility are not met such as an incident register, abuse  register,  complaints  register,  restraint  register,  admission register,  visitors  register,  and  pass-outs  register  and  there  is no appropriate sanitation,” spokesperson Feziwe Ndwayana said. “What’s disturbing is that the caregivers are untrained general workers with no qualifications or any training as caregivers, the manager also has no qualifications and is untrained and there are no clear job descriptions for any of the staff.”  Earlier this month, a pensioner suffered abuse at the hands of staff. It was alleged the frail pensioner was starved for days at a time, burnt, beaten and neglected. She was also inhumanely deprived of her medication for at least 18 months The Gauteng dseparmtent has called for the immediate closure of the residential care facility recommended, and the pensioners will be moved to alternative, registered facilities. Compiled by Lethabo Malatsi. Additional information by Marizka Coetzer ALSO READ: Pensioner allegedly beaten, starved, burnt, at Joburg care facility