It seems like on an almost hourly basis someone in the media, whether traditional or social, will question the wisdom of the Sharks using Curwin Bosch as their starting flyhalf and for many, Aphelele Fassi’s ankle injury provided an opportunity to shift the mercurial Springbok to fullback and try someone else at No 10. Fassi has been ruled out of Saturday’s United Rugby Championship clash with Edinburgh at Kings Park, but the Sharks have elected to keep Bosch at flyhalf and bring Anthony Volmink back into the starting line-up in the No 15 jersey. “Obviously we did discuss moving Curwin to fullback, but we felt he is getting better every week at flyhalf,” Sharks coach Sean Everitt said after announcing his team on Thursday. “Anthony is a left-footed kicking option and he has always performed whenever he has put on the Sharks jersey. Overseas he was particularly good against Ospreys. “So it was quite straightforward in the end. Curwin will be making his fourth start in a row at flyhalf and he has shown some great signs. “He distributed well against Zebre last weekend and he had a 100% tackle completion rate. We are pleased with his growth at flyhalf.” But with 23-year-old reserve flyhalf Boeta Chamberlain still learning his trade at this level, and Tito Bonilla making some grim, crucial mistakes in the Sharks’ midweek Currie Cup loss to the Free State Cheetahs, Everitt does not have much choice really. The Sharks are hoping Fassi will be fit for their local derby against the Lions on April 9. Edinburgh will be the first real big guns of the tournament that the Sharks have met for a while, and whoever wins on Saturday will stay in contact with the top four on the log. Edinburgh are currently fifth in the standings, three points ahead of the sixth-placed Sharks, who have a game in hand. “There’s a lot at stake because Edinburgh are just ahead of us on the log and the guys are amped. Our team has gained confidence from four bonus point victories on the trot,” Everitt said. “I thought it was also a better performance last weekend, although we did not finish all the opportunities we created. We’ve had good consistency of selection, which helps.” Sharks team Anthony Volmink, Werner Kok, Ben Tapuai, Marius Louw, Makazole Mapimpi, Curwin Bosch, Grant Williams, Sikhumbuzo Notshe, Henco Venter, Siya Kolisi (c), Reniel Hugo, Gerbrandt Grobler, Thomas du Toit (v/c), Bongi Mbonambi, Ox Nche Bench: Kerron van Vuuren, Ntuthuko Mchunu, Khutha Mchunu, Le Roux Roets, Phepsi Buthelezi, James Venter, Jaden Hendrikse, Boeta Chamberlain