Celebrations had to be cut short at Orlando Pirates following their good run in the Caf Confederation Cup as they now have to shift their focus in the DStv Premiership where they are facing Chippa United at the Orlando Stadium on Wednesday. Bucs were in celebration after the club qualified for the Confed Cup semi-finals after beating Tanzanian outfit Simba SC 4-3 on penalties this past weekend. READ ALSO: Stellenbosch to extend contract of ex Pirates defender With the continental journey on a smooth run for the Soweto giants, it is in the domestic league where the Buccaneers need to get their things in order with the club’s main priority being to finish in second place on the league standings. Pirates are in fifth place on the table with 39 points, level with rivals Kaizer Chiefs, who are also looking for a runner-up spot with both sides having played 25 and 24 games respectively. There is also Royal AM, who are currently occupying the second spot with 45 points, while Cape Town City are in third position with 40 points. The race for the Caf Champions League spot is set to intensify with the remaining games. Ncikazi says his team needs to improve in the domestic league and says there is a reason for his club’s inconsistency. But, looking at the club’s last three league games, they have done quite well recording two wins and one draw. “In the PSL, I think we’ll also improve but you have to be mindful of the fact that most of our players are coming from injuries. But we need to fight. There is still a chance to finish second. We are still going to play Royal AM,” Ncikazi said. “Other teams (like Cape Town City and Kaizer Chiefs) are still going to play each other. Let it be. Let’s try to go as far as we can in the league. But for now, allow us to celebrate that we are in the semi-final of the Confederation Cup.” Bucs face a Chippa side that is seeking to get as far away as they can from the relegation zone. Chippa are in 12th place on the log with 25 points from 25 games, but only seven points separates them with bottom of the league side Baroka FC.