High levels of violent crime, robberies, house burglaries and hijackings are forcing people to abandon freestanding properties in favour of high-security housing complexes or estates. While security complexes offer numerous advantages, such as heightened security and well-maintained public spaces, communal living comes with a price tag, namely the levies and taxes. Homeowners living in complexes often complain that levies are too high and, in some cases, increases of up to 65% have been reported.  Personal finance website JustMoney.co.za spoke to property experts about what is legal and fair, and what owners can do if they feel their levies are excessive. Every owner in an estate or complex must pay a monthly levy to ensure the scheme is run efficiently and benefits everyone.      But homeowners don’t always know what their contributions cover.      “Levies cover everything on what is known as common property. Anything outside of your unit is part of that common property unless you have exclusive usage of some part of it, like your garden,” says independent real estate professional Sarel Ueckermann.     This means you pay for everything from water infrastructure and administration to garden services and the big one – security. Owners need to take all of these charges into account when they purchase a unit in an estate or complex. “Levies are a function of the costs, and the costs are fully mapped out in the budget for the complex, which is tabled at the annual general meeting (AGM),” explains Trafalgar Property Management managing director, Andrew Schaefer.  “Costs are linked to services and maintenance, so if you want levies reduced, look at where costs can be reduced.” Trustees may request that owners pay special levies to cover emergencies or extra work, for example, when a lift in a building has to be replaced, or a swimming pool is resurfaced.  But some owners feel they’re being overcharged and may be reluctant to pay these fees over and above their monthly contributions. Special levies can be raised under certain circumstances, but they can be limited in future, thanks to the Community Schemes Ombud Service Act 9 of 2011 (CSOSA).  This act says schemes must set up a reserve fund to ensure there are enough savings to cover emergencies.  Unfortunately, it takes time for schemes to build up reserves, which must be equal to the income earned by the scheme in the previous financial year. “If you have a turnover of R1 million, you must have R1 million in your reserve fund, and keep that going,” says Ueckermann.  But, he feels the act should have been phased in over time to help owners, rather than implemented all at once, which has caused some financial distress to owners. Although trustees can approve a special levy regardless of how owners feel about it, there are ways to manage and control the finances of a scheme, says Schaefer.  He recommends that owners always attend AGMs so they can review the budget, make recommendations to reduce costs, and vote on important issues. “Always insist on obtaining quotes, choose reputable contractors, and consider installing cameras instead of having security personnel patrol the estate.” According to Lauren Squier, an associate at Schindler’s Attorneys, trustees do not have absolute power.  “Members can restrict the trustees’ approving expenses over R50,000, and require that the members approve these at a special general meeting,” she says.  “There are ways to limit special levies and control your investment as a member, but it is important to be reasonable in doing so, as restricting the trustees severely will prejudice the running of the scheme.” If you’re buying into a complex, ask your estate agent if you can examine the minutes of AGMs, levy statements, municipal accounts and complex rules, Schaefer advises.  This will give you a good idea of whether you can afford to buy into it.  “Do your homework, especially if you’re a first-time homeowner. You don’t want to lose your home because you haven’t factored in all possible costs.” “Buying property is generally an expensive, long-term commitment,” says JustMoney Marketing Manager Shafeeka Anthony.  “It’s essential that you do your research and factor in all of the costs and hidden charges from the outset. This way you know what to expect and you can budget to avoid nasty surprises after you have signed on the dotted line.” Compiled by Narissa Subramoney NOW READ: Thembi Seete: Can a body corporate evict you over unpaid levies?