More than 800 homes have been either partially or completely lost as a result of the floods in KwaDukuza, but the number is likely much higher, reports the North Coast Courier. This was revealed as part of the preliminary report into flood damages which the KwaDukuza municipality (KDM) compiled after oversight visits were undertaken between April 15 to 18. Aside from the homes, 288 roads, 82 bridges, 81 electrical infrastructure sites and 20 public amenities were damaged. The damage to the electrical infrastructure has been of particular concern, with power outages sweeping across KwaDukuza outside of load shedding hours. ALSO READ: eThekwini water restrictions: Water rationing implemented in these areas Opposition party councillors and the Courier have written to KDM requesting feedback on the damages and remedial action plans, but no response had been received at the time of publishing. Although the compiled numbers are already staggeringly high, ward councillors indicated they are likely much higher after the report was presented to council last week. “I am not sure this is a true reflection of my ward. I’m convinced there are many more places that have been affected,” said ward 16 councillor, Sabelo Mthiyane.This was echoed by ward 1 councillor, Judith Mpanza. “I am not happy with these figures at all. There are about 250 people affected in my ward and here it only lists 84. It appears as if a proper job has not been done,” she said. “It is important to note that it is a preliminary report and that ward councillors were meant to guide municipal teams as to where damage had occurred,” said Community Services executive director, Siya Khanyile in responce. R15 000 has been allocated towards burial costs for the families of 10 residents who died during the floods. Temporary housing was also arranged for 217 displaced people at 9 community halls where goods, hampers, blankets, stoves, mattresses and sponges were supplied as per the report. However, ward 17 councillor Chellappa Naicker said the hall in his ward had not received all of these amenities. “We were frustrated at the beginning because we had little support until the executive directors decided to step up. Let us make it quite clear that all the people mentioned did not receive what is listed,” he said. He also raised concern about the report’s recommendation “that council notes that KDM does not have capacity to attend to individual damages that has occurred at private premises”. “Many rate- and taxpayers have been affected and I do not agree that they should not be helped,” Naicker said. Acting municipal manager, Nhlanhla Mdakane, said it was impossible to administer direct aid in this way and that packages from provincial and national government would be better suited for this purpose. The report was passed without changes. This article first appeared on Caxton publication North Coast Courier, by James Anderson. Read the original article here.