The life of the rich and famous has always been an intrigue for ordinary folks like ourselves and this next luxury trend sees them indulging in an ultimate in-flight taster menu on a private jet.  To create a seamless experience, private jet charter agents, Fast Private Jet, has collaborated with industry leaders in the science and food space.  This includes a Michelin-trained chef Stephen Toward and a master sommelier Doug Forest, to make the ultimate in-flight taster menu. In a statement, Fast Private Jet says they noticed their clients’ luxury lifestyles are from the highest levels. From chartering yachts for a business brunch or flying halfway around the world to experience the best restaurants they noticed a gap for a luxury in-flight menu that would live up to the high flying dining experiences across the globe. They took into account how the high altitude and air pressure when flying can affect our taste buds and our sensory ability to enjoy food.  ALSO READ:WATCH: Best sourdough in Joburg? Linden Loaves rises to the occasion Ellie Bubsy a nutritionist and expert in nutrigenetics shared information on the type of food most subtle on an aeroplane.  Frost and Toward curated seven-course is complete with wine pairings for each dish as the pair go into detail about the flavour profile of each course.   Toward says this dish is to “kick your taste buds off with the smoky salted taste of slow confit duck legs, and a sharp contrast to the rich earthy taste of the truffle bang ravioli.”  The wine pairing is an Italian red wine, Banfi Rosso di Montalcino 2019 Tuscany which has notes of tangy red cherry flavours but carries a hint of earthy and herbal components that highlight this intense dish, Frost says.  The course highlights the vibrant colour and flavour of Nettle (herbal leaf), wild garlic and a hint of anchovy saltness. The dish is paired with Austrian wine Schloss Gobelsburg Grüner Veltliner 2019, a textured wine to savour and allow the soup to shine.  Chef Toward says the Brulee is inspired by his private fine dining experience at Stone Dining. Describing the dish he said: “The sharpness of the parmesan sables and the addition of quince in the chutney give a bittersweet sharpness that cuts the richness of the dish, in small mouthfuls.”  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The wine pairing is an Italian sparkling wine, LaMarca Prosecco nv Veneto a great match complemented with its pear and apple aromas.  A classic combination of spring and summer flavours, the pickled cornish crab meat and mildly cured Scottish salmon lemon and maple serve as a palate cleanser. The wine is a St. Supery Sauvignon Blanc 2020 Sonoma from California that has enough crispiness for the cured salmon.  Toward says the beech smoked beetroot, horseradish dumpling and the extra mature beef fillet had been maturing for 45 days. He says this course is the standout and will impress guests. Pairing it with French red wine Famille Perrin Cotes du Rhone 2019 Rhone Valley, Mediterranean aromas and its savoury palate of red and black fruits.  “A small pot of happiness”, the “sweet and bitter” flavours work well in this altitude and on the sweeter side of the menu. Frost recommends this decadent Australian wine Chambers Rosewood Muscat NV Rutherglen which has caramel and honey flavours.  A perfect ending to an extravagant dinner on air, the sweetness of the honey and figs, is enhanced by the aged port with its chocolate and maple flavours. This dessert with a Niepoort 10 year aged Tawny Port.  Compiled by Sandisiwe Mbhele