While most people enjoyed time with their families enjoying traditional Easter favourites, Denise Zimba was surrounded by her loved ones once again as she celebrated her recent nuptials with a traditional ceremony.  Videos and pictures shared by friends and family such as Mbali Nkosi, Thando Thabethe, Pearl Modiadie and more show Zimba looking radiant in a printed fabric mermaid tail gown with layered frills at the bottom of the dress and on its shoulders. She is also sporting a matching head wrap.Her husband, Jakob Schlichtig, is seen wearing a white shirt, blue waistcoat and trousers with embroidered embellishments.The pair were also flanked by dancers wearing traditional Setswana outfits as the dancers performed for their guests. Last weekend, Zimba and her beau said “I do” in a white wedding at the picturesque Blaauwklippen Vineyards venue in the Stellenbosch Winelands. Posting on her big day, she wrote: “Today is my Wedding Day … it’s finally here! I have been seeing a flood of my family and friends coming in from around the world, and I can’t express enough how excited I am. I’m so grateful. A big thank you to everyone!” Over the years, Denise Zimba has shared her time between Germany and South Africa as she juggled living with her partner, whom she affectionately refers to “James Dean,” and maintaining her life in South Africa.  Denise and Jakob have a child together – a daughter named Leah Lilli-Rose Schlichtig who was born in 2019.  Jakob is the managing director at Amandla Social Enterprises and Safe-Hub and seems to have known Denise Zimba since around 2015.  Her white wedding guest list was star-studded with celebrities such as Cindy Nell, Sihle Ndaba, Lorna Maskeo and Chef Zola Nene all in attendance. During the weekend of her white wedding, a fellow South African celebrity, Faith Nketsi was also saying “I do” in a ceremony that shocked fans who never saw it coming.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.