Reagen Allen was officially sworn in as the Western Cape MEC for Community Safety and Police Oversight on Tuesday. At 37 years old, Allen is no stranger to the portfolio.  He previously served as the chairperson of the Standing Committee of Community Safety and Cultural Affairs and Sport since June 2019 and was a member of the Western Cape Provincial Parliament from December 2018. “MEC Allen has and will continue to diligently serve his constituents and the greater Western Cape with the care, integrity, accountability, responsiveness, competence and innovation it requires,” said Premier Alan Winde. “I am indeed honoured to have been entrusted with the appointment of the Provincial Minister of Community Safety and Police Oversight and I have hit the ground running so that we can continue to realise the Western Cape Safety Plan, said the newly appointed MEC. Allen’s ambitious crime prevention plan includes halving the province’s murder rate by 2029. “We are determined to work with all stakeholders, including the SAPS, local government and communities, to ensure that this important objective is realised,” said Allen. Allen has also committed to: • Visit 30 police stations• Join 30 neighbourhood watch walkabouts• Participate in a number of joint crime prevention operations conducted by reaction units supported by the department, inclusive of the K9 units and Leap Programme• Strengthen the already established relationship with the Saps Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant-General Patekile and station commanders in the province• Engage various safety partners and political parties to ascertain how best we can collaboratively combat crime and violence. “We must, and we will continue to push for more policing resources in the Western Cape, especially in our poorer communities,” said Allen. “It is not fair that the worst-affected areas have unacceptable police-to-population ratios. “With this said, I know that the Saps is working to address this, and I will work with them and their leadership so that this can be achieved as soon as possible,” he continued. Allen promised additional resources in the province’s crime hotspots through its Leap programme, which has already seen over 1 000 officers deployed. The new MEC will also concentrate his efforts on curbing gang-related violence in the province. NOW READ: Cele dismisses SAPS devolution