Banyana Banyana and Mamelodi Sundowns midfielder Thalea Smidt is one of the new and exciting emerging talents in the senior national women’s team, who is working hard to make a mark at the highest level in football. And, Banyana’s international friendly with the Netherlands couldn’t have come at a better time than now for the Cape Town born player, with the South Africans preparing to take on the Europeans at the city of Den Haag on Tuesday. READ ALSO: Former Pirates midfielder resurfaces at ABC Motsepe side The squad had been in camp the whole of last week, before departing to the European country on Friday and arriving on Saturday. “It feels great to be part of the team and to have an opportunity to play against the Netherlands. It’s a huge break and a big stage to some of us who are new in the team. I want to take this opportunity and use it the best possible way I can,” said Banyana Ba Style midfielder. “I think we prepared very well during the week, we know our opponents and we know what they are capable of. But, we will have to put everything that we have done at training during the match and give it our best shot. The season hasn’t started (Hollywoodbets league and the Sasol League), so, most of us have been in pre-season. But, some of the overseas players have already begun their new season.” The 25-years old Smidt is a former junior national team player, whose career started at Santos Ladies back at the Mother City. She had spells with University of the Western Cape and University of Pretoria before joining Downs last year. Her debut season with the Brazilians ladies saw her being part of a squad that made women’s football history in the continent by winning the first ever Caf Women’s Champions League. She also added two trophies with the team after they lifted the Cosafa Caf Women’s qualifiers title and were crowned the champions of the domestic league. Now, she is set to be part of the Banyana team that will take on some to Dutch women players like Vivianne Miedema, who plays for Arsenal ladies. Netherlands head into the Banyana clash after thrashing Cyprus 12-0 in a World Cup qualifier match last Friday.