The flowy gown that model Bailey Baldwin wore to the 64th annual Grammy Awards left fans speculating that she and her husband Justin Beiber were expecting their first child. She caught wind of the rumours and immediately put them to bed. US Weekly reports that the model responded to an Instagram post on 4 April after the post claimed fans were “convinced” that she is expecting. She simply said; “I’m not pregnant leave me alone.” The gown in question was a strapless, flowy silk Saint Lauren gown that tended to bunch up around the midsection as she walked and moved. Her dress went under the radar as it was her husband’s outfit that stole the show. He wore an oversized Balenciaga suit which he paired with dark sunglasses and a hot pink beanie.  He also wore some chunky, steel-toed shoes. A month before the Grammy, Hailey was reportedly hospitalized for “stroke-like” symptoms. This is after she suffered a very small blood clot in her brain. In a post addressed to her social media followers, she called the experience “one of the scariest moments” of her life. She said she was discharged after her body passed the clot on its own and she thanked everyone for their well wishes.Hailey and Justin were legally married on 13 September 2018 and celebrated with friends and family weeks later. On 2020, Justin Beiber shared some never-before-seen footage from the wedding on his YouTube channel.  While Hailey may not yet be having a baby, her uncle Alec and his wife Hilaria recently announced that they were expecting their seventh child together.Hilaria posted a video surrounded by their six children and Alec, as they shared with their toddlers she’s having another baby. “After many ups and downs over the past few years, we have an exciting up and a huge surprise: another Baldwinito is coming this fall. “We were pretty sure our family was complete, and we’re beyond happy with this surprise. I’m sharing with you the moment we told the kids—as you can see, they are super excited! Our new baby is a very bright spot in our lives. A blessing and a gift during such uncertain times. I’ve missed you during my break from social media…I’m back and looking forward to continuing with you this wild journey that we call “life.” Our love to you and your loved ones,” Hilaria wrote on Instagram.  This will be Alec’s eighth child, his first is a model and actress, Ireland Baldwin who is 25 years old. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.