Anele Mdoda is taking a step back from the radio mic as she is expected to tour the world for the next few months.  947 announced on Wednesday that their The Club Breakfast Show host will be participating in a series of dynamic “global master classes” attributed to her nearly three-month absence.  Anele teased listeners that her leave was similar to her maternity leave seven years ago.  She described her adventurous absence as a “two-month fact-finding stint and mission” and one of the places she will explore includes Edinburg, Scotland.  The masterclasses will see Anele and her co-hosts exploring new and emerging broadcasting and entertainment trends including “interrogating global best practices that will invigorate the show on her return,” the radio station said.  947 has shifted their team to adjust to this. Afternoon drive host Thando Thabethe will temporarily host Anele’s morning slot, while Zweli Mkhize will take on Thando’s morning show. Anele will be back on air on 1 July.  The TV presenter has used the radio platform to highlight broad issues including e-hailing service Bolt drivers who have been accused of sexual assault.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. In March, Anele went on the hunt for a Bolt driver accused of rape after the allegations were made public on Twitter.  Social media users shared on Anele’s Twitter account about their horrific personal experiences with the app. Many people have said the matter is outrageous and said incidents by Bolt drivers are reported every week on social media platforms and nothing is done about it. RELATED: Anele Mdoda seeks answers over Bolt driver who allegedly raped a client Anele decided to take the matter forward and ask for accountability from Bolt.  A representative from Bolt Africa, public relations manager Nthabiseng Mokoena sent a response to Anele who read it out on her radio morning show, Anele and the club.  Mokoena said Bolt is genuinely agonised by the many issues that have transpired and are not thrilled by the fact that people perceive their services are established to violate their sense of safety or their freedom to move entrenched in our constitution. Anele said she wasn’t happy with the response adding the app needed “to do better.”