The Real Housewives of Lagos (RHOLagos) is now streaming on Showmax, after trending at number one on Twitter from 5pm on Thursday for 15 hours straight ahead of its Friday, 8 am launch (with no sign of dropping down the charts at the time of writing).As such, people are keen to find out more about the castmates. The latest edition of the hit reality TV show franchise follows the opulent lives of six of the most glamorous women in Africa’s largest megacity.  In true Lagos style, they will be serving up all the high fashion, luxury, drama, and power moves that the franchise is known and loved for globally.Four of the RHOLagos cast members flew to Johannesburg this week to launch the show in South Africa at an event hosted by Bonang Matheba.  Toyin Lawani-Adebo (@tiannahsplacempire) is a renowned celebrity stylist, fashion designer, business mogul and CEO of Tiannah’s Place Empire. She is a mother of three super-talented kids and is married to musician and creative photographer Segun Wealth. Chioma Ikokwu is a lawyer as well as co-founder and CEO of luxury hair brand Good Hair Ltd, and Brass and Copper Restaurant & Lounge. She also runs a woman-and-children-focused charity called the Goodway Foundation. Chioma has never been married and can be found on Instagram at @chiomagoodhair. Iyabo Ojo is a famous Nollywood actress, producer, TikTok sensation (@iyaboojofespris), brand influencer, entrepreneur and CEO of Fepris Limited. Ojo is divorced and a mother of two. Mariam Timmer is a PR expert and chief executive director at Six Sixteen Agency. She’s the creative director at Lure Fashion Limited, an online retail fashion line, an online content creator under the handle @mariamadeyemitimmer, YouTuber and entrepreneur. Timmer is a mom to a beautiful daughter and married to John Timmer. Carolyna and Laura could not make it to the Johannesburg RHOLagos launch event. Carolyna Hutchings is the CEO of Hutchings Limited, a real estate, oil and gas, and agriculture company. She is also the founder of Hopeville Foundation, an NGO that caters to women and children. Hutchings is a mother of three beautiful kids. Follow her on Instagram @hrmcarolyna. Laura Ikeji is a social media influencer under the handle @lauraikeji, author, and entrepreneur. Ikeji is a mother of two, married to former Super Eagles star Christopher Kanu. “Seeing The Real Housewives of Lagos trend at #1 on Twitter in South Africa confirms what we knew all along: that this is going to be not just a hit Nigerian show but a pan-African one,” said Candice Fangueiro, head of content at Showmax.  The Johannesburg premiere comes hot on the heels of the RHOLagos premiere held at the magnificent The Jewel Aedia in Lekki, Lagos, hosted by Toke Makinwa (talk show host on BBNaija: The Buzz and Talk with Toke Makinwa). RHOLagos will be the first Nigerian instalment of the award-winning franchise, distributed internationally by NBCUniversal Formats, which is part of Universal International Studios, a division of Universal Studio Group.  This also marks the 16th international version of The Real Housewives format and the third African adaptation, following the success of The Real Housewives of Johannesburg and Durban, both now streaming on Showmax.  RHOLagos will stream on Showmax throughout Africa, the United Kingdom and other international markets such as Andorra, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, San Marino, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland. The Real Housewives of Durban released its penultimate episode today, ahead of the finale next Friday, 15 April 2022, with a reunion scheduled for early May 2022. Compiled by Kaunda Selisho