With current Currie Cup pacesetters the Cheetahs having Wednesday’s match day off, the Bulls will be targeting a return to the top of the log when they host Western Province at Loftus (kickoff 8pm). The Bulls have had a fantastic Currie Cup campaign so far, losing just once against the Cheetahs, but have won their other five matches all with bonus points to sit second on the log on 25 points, just one behind the leaders. They will be targeting another full house of points against struggling Western Province, who find themselves second from bottom on the log, having picked up just one win from six matches so far. The Bulls will thus want another big performance to move top of the table and put pressure on the competition favourites Cheetahs. ALSO READ: Bok veterans Steyn, Du Plessis to take charge of Bulls against WP The Griquas and Sharks, meanwhile, will both be aiming to cement themselves in the top four on the log when they meet for their encounter in Kimberley (kickoff 5.45pm). The Sharks are currently third on the log on 18 points, three ahead of Griquas in fourth. The first clash between these two in Durban earlier in the competition ended with the Sharks sealing a thrilling 24-23 win, and a similar match could be on the cards with Griquas turning out as slight favourites at home. Griquas also know the importance of the match as a loss will open the door for the Pumas to possibly reel them in and make it a battle for the final playoff berth. ALSO READ: Sharks make some tweaks to their team for Griquas clash In the other midweek match, the Pumas welcome the Lions to Mbombela Stadium (kickoff 3.30pm). It’s been a tough campaign for the Pumas, having lost four and won two out of their six games, but they will take plenty of confidence out of their last encounter, a bonus-point win over Western Province. They will also be confident of picking up a full house of points against the competition’s whipping boys, the Lions, having already thumped them 50-9 in Johannesburg earlier in the campaign. For the Lions, this should be all about testing their growth and improving on what has been a dismal competition. Their decision to split their URC and Currie Cup squads has been questioned, as they have had to throw a full squad of inexperienced youngsters into the Currie Cup and they haven’t been able to cut it. But the management team will be hoping to see an improved showing and some fight that has been missing from the team for much of the campaign.