Here is your daily news update. Click on the links below for the full story or visit our home page for the latest news. Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane’s application for an interdict against President Cyril Ramaphosa suspending her and to halt Parliament’s impeachment process against her has been postponed to 18 May and 19 May. The postponement was because of what Mkhwebane’s legal counsel, advocate Dali Mpofu, called an “unfortunate development” with the public protector’s rescission application to the Constitutional Court (ConCourt). Mpofu didn’t elaborate on what the “unfortunate development” was. Mkhwebane’s hearing was supposed to take place on Tuesday and Wednesday in the Western Cape High Court.  Chairperson of Parliament’s Standing Committee on Public Accounts (Scopa) Mkhuleko Hlengwa has apologised to Eskom board member Busisiwe Mavuso following a heated confrontation that resulted in Mavuso storming out of Friday’s meeting in parliament. Mavuso had a heated exchange with Hlengwa after she said Eskom’s current board and CEO André de Ruyter would not be the “fall guy” for the mess at the embattled power utility that she attributed to the ANC-led government. On Tuesday, Hlengwa issued a statement apologising to Mavuso for how the matter was handled and said that he would also convey it directly to her. The African Nation Congress (ANC) national executive committee (NEC) has resolved to tighten the step-aside resolution adopted by the party’s 54th national conference. The NEC held a special meeting on Monday and Tuesday, which focused on the finalisation of discussion documents towards the ANC National Policy Conference and 55th national conference, to be held at the end of July and in December 2022 respectively. In February 2021, the NEC adopted Guidelines and Procedures on the Implementation of National Conference Resolutions on ANC Credibility and Integrity: Dealing with Corruption and on Fighting Crime and Corruption that dealt with the implementation of the step-aside resolution adopted by the 54th National Conference. President Cyril Ramaphosa says the concerns raised by different sectors of society over the looting of emergency flood relief funds in the wake of the devastating deluge in KwaZulu-Natal was a “great source of shame” for government. Addressing a hybrid joint sitting of Parliament on Tuesday on the catastrophic floods, Ramaphosa said the fears raised by South Africans showed just how tired citizens had become of corruption. “It is a great source of shame when this disaster struck, the most burning public debate, was around fears that the resources allocated to respond to this disaster would be misappropriated or wasted,” Ramaphosa said. The forensic investigator who collected evidence from the crime scene, Sergeant Thabo Mosia is currently under cross-examination by advocate Malesela Teffo who is representing four of the suspects. Sifisokuhle Ntuli, Muzikawukhulelwa Sthemba Sibiya, Bongani Sandiso Ntanzi, Mthobisi Prince Ncube, and Mthokoziseni Ziphozonke Maphisa face a string of charges over the Bafana Bafana captains murder in Vosloorus in 2014. Meyiwa, who also captained the Orlando Pirates was gunned at the family home of his girlfriend, Afro gospel singer Kelly Khumalo, in Vosloorus, Gauteng.  Russia has warned of the “real” threat of World War III breaking out, ahead of a Tuesday meeting between the United States and allies over sending further arms to war-torn Ukraine. Moscow’s invasion of its neighbour triggered an outburst of support from Western nations that has seen weapons pour into the country to help it wage war against Russian troops. But Western powers have been reluctant to deepen their involvement to sparking a conflict against nuclear-armed Russia. Speaking to Russian news agencies, Moscow’s Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov warned the risk of World War III “is serious” and criticised Kyiv’s approach to floundering peace talks. Kaizer Chiefs’ disciplinary hearing with the Premier Soccer League (PSL) was postponed on Monday. Amakhosi are facing a charge of fielding two ineligible players in one of their DStv Premiership fixtures in December. The Naturena-side also have another case that is still pending with the PSL of failing to honour two of their fixtures in the same month. PSL prosecutor Zola Majavu has given an update on the cases and also revealed that Cape Town City boss John Comitis will also appear before the DC on Friday. ALSO READ: Daily news update: Senzo Meyiwa murder trial, Busisiwe Mavuso and Elon Musk