Swallows FC’s comeback against Baroka FC in Sunday’s DStv Premiership clash has led to head coach Kgoloko Thobejane’s demotion to the club’s Diski Challenge team. The two teams are facing relegation and met each other in a thrilling encounter. Baroka, who are at the bottom of the league, began the tie brightly after Sekela Sithole and Richard Mbulu gave Bakgaga a 2-0 lead. READ ALSO: ‘We cried’, says Sundowns’ Mngqithi But the party was spoiled by Swallows striker Mwape Musonda, who scored a brace in the space of a minute. The Birds eventually got a winner thanks to veteran midfielder Musa Nyatama as Swallows won 3-2 at Dobsonville Stadium, showing just how desperate the Birds are to avoid relegation. With the win, Swallows jumped to 14th place on the league standings with 23 points, after 26 games. But, they are level with 15th placed TS Galaxy, with Swallows having a better goal difference in the race to survive the chop. For Baroka, the team is facing the reality of automatic relegation, as they have only managed to collect 18 points with four games remaining to the end of the season. Bakgaga are five points behind both Swallows and Galaxy, and with games coming in quickly, the Limpopo based outfit will find themselves playing in the GladAfrica Championship next season should things not change for the better in the last few games. Baroka have some tough fixtures coming up in their mission to save their season. Their next game is against Golden Arrows on May 5, followed by Chippa United and SuperSport United, while they end the season with a tie against Maritzburg United on May 21. For Swallows, they have a difficult fixture against AmaZulu FC on May 3, before coming up against SuperSport, Chippa and Kaizer Chiefs. Looking at Galaxy, their battle for survival continues with a tie against Orlando Pirates on May 3, which will be followed by an encounter with Mother City-based club Cape Town City. They then play Marumo Gallants, while they wrap up the campaign by locking horns with the Chilli Boys.