Since distributing videos emerged of actor SK Khoza’s behaviour, fans have been left wondering if the mother of one of his children, Lee-Anne Makopo (aka Gogo Maweni) had anything to do with his seemingly erratic behaviour. The actor, who once starred in the popular Mzansi Magic telenovela The Queen can be seen in a couple of videos wearing the same orange sweater and grey pants, trying to get into physical altercations with multiple people.People who have seen the videos speculated that he may have been under the influence of something.  Others believed that his behaviour might have been a result of underlying and untreated psychological issues.  In one of the videos, which was filmed at a petrol station, Khoza is seen being held back, looking visibly upset and aggressive, shouting in isiZulu, “Come here…come here little boy” whilst voices in the background can be heard laughing at his antics.  There is a small crowd of people watching while a woman eggs him on to fight this unknown person. Khoza is then stopped by security. It is unclear how the altercation started and what spurred it on.  In another video, which appears to have been shot earlier in the day, the actor is heard slurring his words and shouting profanities at a man outside a hotel establishment. Other videos of a similar nature were also shared online.After his behaviour trended on social media and made headlines, he told TimesLIVE that the videos were misinterpreted, as he was reacting to being treated badly and lost his temper as a result.He also said the cryptic Instagram post he put up amid the drama was written on purpose. “When I said that maybe some of us are meant to be great in the next lifetime, it’s maybe that.  It means maybe, if things are not great in this lifetime, maybe they will be great in the next,” he explained.   He also denied being on drugs, saying people are “talking nonsense”. “I don’t do drugs, my family know that. I’ve taken drug tests in front of my family members. It’s literally one of those moments where I was rubbed the wrong way and I reacted, that’s that.” This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The reality television and social media star has built a following for herself using her journey as a sangoma and has admitted to using her gifts for “dark” things on her reality show.As such, people speculated that Gogo Maweni was the cause behind the misfortune that had befallen the fathers of her children.      Speaking on Ukhozi FM earlier this week, Gogo Maweni reiterated a point she says she had made earlier this year with her statement, “if my kids don’t eat, no one will eat.” She also told the station’s breakfast show host that she had spoken to her ancestors about the burden of being a single mother in an effort to have them deal with the problem on her behalf so that she could focus on the work she was tasked to do as a sangoma.  Gogo Maweni did add that she had made peace with the fact that neither SK nor the other fathers of her children were interested in being financially responsible for their children and she added that she would never call them to ask them to fulfil their responsibilities.  Daily Sun reports that she had later issued a statement declaring that she had nothing to do with the troubles SK was facing and that any statement she had previously made that were thought to be related to his situation were comments made “in jest.” She added that she wished him well and would be open to happily and peacefully co-parenting with him.