Residents in parts of Mpumalanga can expect partly cloudy and cool to warm weather, with isolated showers and thundershowers on Saturday.  Areas such as Delmas, Blafour, Secunda, Ermelo, Emalahleni and Middelburg, to name a few, will be affected, said the South African Weather Service (SAWS) on Friday.  Gauteng: Partly cloudy and cool but warm in the north with isolated showers and thundershowers. The expected UVB sunburn index: Moderate Limpopo: Partly cloudy and cool to warm with isolated showers and thundershowers. North West: Fine and cool, becoming partly cloudy in the afternoon with isolated thundershowers, expect in the west. Free State: Cloudy with morning fog patches over the central parts, otherwise fine and cool. Northern Cape: Cloudy with morning fog patches in the southern parts and along the coast, otherwise fine and cool to warm, but partly cloudy in the east. The wind along the coast will be light northerly to north-westerly becoming moderate southerly to south-westerly by the afternoon. Western Cape: Cloudy along the south-west and south coast in the morning, otherwise fine to partly cloudy and cool. The wind along the coast will be light and variable along the west coast in the morning, otherwise moderate to fresh westerly to south-westerly. The expected UVB sunburn index: High Western half of the Eastern Cape: Cloudy in places along the coast and adjacent interior at first, otherwise partly cloudy and cold to cool. The wind along the coast will be fresh south westerly. Eastern half of the Eastern Cape: Cloudy at first, otherwise partly cloudy and cold to cool. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong south westerly. The weather service has issued a watch for excessive lightning in Tsolo, Lusikisiki, Nyandeni, Mthatha and Mbizana on Friday.  “Excessive lightning could result in loss of life and livestock, localised service disruption due to power surges/disruptions, and localised damage to property,” said the weather service.  ALSO READ: Isolated showers and thundershowers expected in parts of Gauteng on Friday KwaZulu-Natal: Partly cloudy to cloudy and cool but warm in the extreme north east with isolated showers and thundershowers. The wind along the coast will be Moderate to fresh southerly to south-westerly. The expected UVB sunburn index: Moderate