The ongoing conflict involving Russia and Ukraine – with Russian President Vladimir Putin launching a full-scale invasion on 24 February – stems back to the 1950s with the transfer of Crimea.  The invasion of Ukraine – said to be the largest military attack in Europe since World War II – is an escalation of the 2014 Russo-Ukrainian war, when the Ukrainian Revolution of Dignity (Maidan Revolution) ousted then-President Viktor Yanukovych. Now in 2022, President Vladimir Putin questioned Ukraine’s right to statehood and accused the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (Nato) of threatening Russia’s security.  China said it was not assisting Russia “to circumvent” sanctions, following warnings from EU officials that any attempt to aid Moscow’s war in Ukraine could damage economic ties. A foreign ministry official told reporters: “We are not doing anything deliberately to circumvent sanctions imposed on Russia by Americans and Europeans.” However, Beijing still refuses to condemn the invasion by its ally, Russia. Meanwhile, after the Red Cross was forced to turn back on Friday, new evacuation efforts are planned for Mariupol. Zelensky says Russia is preparing “powerful strikes” in the country’s east and south, including Mariupol. The live blog may take a few seconds to load. Refresh the page if the space below remains blank.  The transfer from the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (SFSR) to the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic (SSR), at the time described as a symbolic gesture, led to the re-establishment of Crimean autonomy in the early 1990s.  Then in 2014, the focus was once again on Crimea and parts of Donbas during the Ukrainian Revolution of Dignity, resulting in the regions being internationally recognised as part of Ukraine.  At the time, the Euromaidan protests resulted in the removal of President Viktor Yanukovych on 22 February 2014.  In response, Russian soldiers surrounded and seized control of Crimea, defying the referendum of 1991. Uprisings in Donbas turned into a full-blown war to control Donetsk and Luhansk.  A stalemate eventually ensued after repeated failed attempts at a seize fire.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. As Russian forces surround several Ukrainian cities, Moscow warns it could place them under the Kremlin’s “full control”. Kyiv is hemmed in on two sides and drained of more than half of its three million residents with ongoing strikes on the capital killing at least two people on Monday. Nine people die and another nine are injured when Russian forces hit a television tower outside the western Ukrainian city of Rivne, local authorities say. After marathon talks between US and Chinese officials, Washington also expressed concern about “alignment” between Russia and China. The discussions come after reports Moscow is seeking military and economic support from Beijing. While declining to address the reports directly, China accuses Washington of spreading “disinformation” about its role in the conflict. NOW READ: Fresh evacuation efforts for devastated Ukraine cities Additional reporting by AFP, Cheryl Kahla and Gareth Cotterell.