A model that has surprisingly flown underneath the radar since its debut in 2018, BMW has unwrapped the heavily updated X7 overnight as the first model to incorporate its latest styling language. Essentially the preview of what the new 7 Series will look like when its debuts later this year, the X7 becomes the first BMW to adopt a split headlight design that will eventually be passed on to other X models, including, as mentioned, the new Seven. Supposed to “make a potent visual impact”, the completely redesigned front facia comprises the lower section of the light design sporting an upright vent-type look similar to the XM Concept shown last year. While the top LED serves as the daytime running light, the lower mounted upside-down L-shaped diode becomes the main headlight fitted as standard with Adaptive Matrix diodes as well as adaptive bending and selective beam anti-dazzling when on full beam. Less controversial than at its original launch five years ago, the oversized kidney grille remains largely intact from a design perspective, though it now sports new bi-colour bars as well as an illuminated surround called Iconic Glow that can be specified as option on all models bar the M60i where it is standard. ALSO READ: Size does matter for the BMW X7 Down the side, BMW has lengthened the doors and applied an aluminium sanitised finished to the roof rails, while a black package can now be specified for the M60i. At the rear, the changes are less dramatic and involve new LED light clusters and a redesigned apron. As standard, the X7 rides on 20-inch alloy wheels, but while it retains the 21 and 22-inch options, a new 23-inch can be had as the biggest profile wheel ever fitted to any production BMW. Completing the exterior, the colour palette spans 14 hues that includes six new options; Sparkling Copper Grey Metallic, M Marina Bay Blue Metallic and from the BMW Individual catalogue, Ametrine Metallic, Dravite Grey Metallic, Tanzanite Blue Metallic and Frozen Pure Grey Metallic. As before, the X7 continues to be offered with the M Sport package, which, apart from the M specific bumpers and doors sills, comes with the mentioned 21-inch alloy wheel standard with the option of upgrading to the 23-inch wheels. Inside, the X7, which prevails as a six or seven-seater, joins the XM as the latest recipient of BMW’s so-called Curved Dash that combines the 12.3-inch instrument cluster with a 14.9-inch iDrive infotainment system incorporating BMW’s latest iDrive 8 software underneath a single piece of glass for what looks like a complete one-piece unit. Along with new seats, that are heated as standard at the front and available in a selection of colours and materials, a new steering wheel, quad-zone climate control and a panoramic sunroof, BMW has altered the centre console by dropping the gear lever for a toggle switch that operates the eight-speed Steptronic gearbox. The rotary iDrive controller lives on though with previous options now standard comprising interior ambient lighting, adaptive cruise control and a ten-speaker sound system. From the options list, buyers have a choice of two additional audio systems; a 16-speaker Harman Kardon or a 20-speaker Bowers & Wilkins Diamond Surround Sound 3D that delivers 1 500-watts. No less than seven USB ports in type-A and type-C designs are placed throughout the interior. On the practically front, the X7’s electric tailgate remains a split affair with the added option of the third row dropping and raising electrically. Boot space with all seven seats up is unchanged at 326-litres, with capacity increasing to 2 120-litres with the second and third rows down. Underneath its polarising skin, the chassis has been fettled to include the adaptive dampers and two-axle air suspension as standard instead of cost options. Adding to this, BMW has also retuned the electric power steering, fitted a launch control function, revised the xDrive all-wheel-drive system so that most of the power is send to the rear wheels, and made the sports ratio setup of the transmission standard across the line-up. Standard on the M60i but optional elsewhere is the Integral Active Steering system that aids low speed cornering, while the xOffroad package, that combines the air suspension with four off-road modes; xSnow, xSand, xGravel and xRocks, remains a carried over option. As for safety and driver assistance systems, items, both optional and standard, include Front Collision Warning with Autonomous Emergency Braking as well as Pedestrian and Cyclist Warning, Rear Collision Prevention, Lane Departure Warning as well as Lane Keep Assist, Steering Assist, Wrong-way Warning, Parking Assistant, Active Lane Change Assist and Lane Control Assist. On the power front, the X7’s range of engines drops from seven to three with the causalities in question being the quad-turbodiesel M50d, the xDrive 30d, the M50i and the xDrive 50i. Carried over, the xDrive 40i remains the entry-level engine, though now aided by a 48-volt mild-hybrid system that adds nine kilowatts and 200 Nm to the 3.0-litre turbocharged straight-six for short bursts. In total though, outputs increase by 35kW/70Nm over the pre-facelift X7 xDrive 40i to 280kW/520Nm with the 0-100 km/h sprint improving by 0.5 seconds to 5.8 seconds. Now the sole oil-burning model, the X7 xDrive 40d’s 3.0-lite straight-six benefits from redesigned internals and new common-rail direct injectors, but while it continues to produce 250kW/700Nm, the latter figure increases to 720 Nm thanks to the mild-hybrid system. The 0-100 km/h sprint is completed in 6.1 seconds. As before, the M60i retains its flagship status, albeit with unchanged outputs of 390kW/750Nm from the 4.4-litre twin-turbo V8. It does however also feature the mild-hybrid system and will complete the 0-100 km/h dash in 4.7 seconds. Going on sale in key markets from August, the facelift X7 has been confirmed for South Africa from the final quarter of this year with pricing and specification to be announced later.