This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. With the Caf Confederation Cup quarter-finals opponents learnt, Orlando Pirates will now be looking to better their performance in the DStv Premiership with the club facing Sekhukhune United at Ellis Park Stadium on Wednesday.ALSO READ: Benni to Pirates talk upsetting Ncikazi? The Soweto giants were drawn against Tanzanian club Simba SC in the quarterfinals of the Confed Cup. At the moment, the domestic league is a huge priority for the Buccaneers, who are chasing a second place finish in the league. Pirates’ spirit going into the Sekhukhune clash will be buoyed by their last few games, with the club unbeaten in their four games in all competitions. They edged SuperSport United 3-2 in their last league outing. Co-coach Mandla Ncikaza knows the importance of getting maximum points against Babina Noko. “Only three points will make sense, just get three points and the journey continues. We have Baroka in the next match. Win all your matches, and possibilities are that your opponents don’t win all their matches, Kaizer Chiefs and Royal AM. Fortunately we are  still going to play Royal AM,” said the Bucs co-coach. “But for now, let’s focus on one game at a time, we have Sekhukhune, get three points and the journey continues.” Sekhukhune, however, are no pushovers and they will definitely make Pirates sweat, with the Limpopo based outfit also on a mission to make the top eight by the end of the campaign. The club from the north are in position nine on the log with 30 points after 23 games, and they head into this match eager to get three points after being held to a 1-1 draws by  Maritzburg United and Stellenbosch FC respectively. The last time Bucs and Sekhukhune met, the Buccaneers had to fight their way back into the game after Brandon Parusnath gave Babina Noko a lead in the first half, only for Pirates to respond with two quick late in the second half as Linda Mntambo scored from a penalty spot and Kabelo Dlamini scored the winner a minute after.