We all understand by now what Kgoloko Thobejane meant when he said, ‘football can kill you a real death’. The way the local game has become so unpredictable – well, maybe except where Mamelodi Sundowns are concerned – that if you have a weak heart you’d better stay away.  I have seen Thobejane ‘die’ and rise again almost as many times as the biblical Jesus has, okay maybe I exaggerate there a little. But the Baroka FC coach ‘dies’ a few times in every game and not because he is a coward, but because he wears his heart on his sleeve.  I also saw how those aligned to Sundowns also ‘died’ last weekend. And theirs was due to the advent of VAR. This VAR thing is meant to help but I see it bringing more drama to the game, which I like. But, it also robs us of the human factor in the game.  I mean if decisions can be reviewed much later, about a minute or two after the incident, then I don’t like it.  Sundowns’ Rulani Mokwena called it unfortunate that they had a goal disallowed which would have made their job in the second leg of their Caf Champions League quarter finals much easier.  The Tshwane side thought they had scored a spectacular equaliser through Neo Maema when the goal was disallowed. It was not because he had been in an offside position, but because a Petro de Luanda player was fouled earlier on when Sundowns wrestled the ball from their opponent. That incident had happened about 40 seconds earlier.  I couldn’t help but feel the pain the Sundowns supporters felt at that moment and how they would have cursed the day whoever came up with the idea of VAR was born. Sundowns lost the game 2-1. The same pain was felt by Orlando Pirates supporters 24 hour later when their captain Happy Jele conceded a penalty. He and his Pirates teammates really believed VAR would absolve him of any wrongdoing as they crowded the referee suggesting he calls for a review on the incident.   Unfortunately for Pirates, VAR confirmed that the referee had made the right call by giving the penalty to Simba SC. Pirates lost 1-0.  These results mean the South African sides have their work cut out for them coming home for the second leg of their fixtures. For Sundowns, a 1-0 win at home this weekend will take the game to be decided on penalties. To safely advance to the semifinals, they need to win by two or more goals with no reply from their visitors. The same applies to Pirates, they need to win by at least two goals to keep their chances of clinching the Caf Confederation Cup alive. And one just can’t help but feel faint pride at the thought of both the Caf titles being won by South African teams. That would be historic and I don’t think it has ever happened before.  We have full analysis from coaches from both sides on this. We also saw the now familiar shouts from Kaizer Chiefs fans for the coach to be sacked. One understands their pain as well because on their return to watch their team live, they were greeted with a not-so-convincing display and a loss. Football can indeed kill you a real death – cheers and enjoy the read.