The Lions were more than unhappy with the unsportsmanlike delaying tactics that visitors Connacht produced during their 33-30 United Rugby Championship win at Ellis Park over the past weekend. From late in the first half, right through the second at every stoppage in play there seemed to be a Connacht player down receiving treatment, or they took their time getting to the set pieces. Even after half time the Lions were all out on the pitch waiting with Connacht still in the dressing room leading to a delayed start to the second half. It was thus a frustrating stop-start affair that certainly assisted the visitors in edging a game the Lions probably should have won, although the home side were also at fault due to their overall performance. Asked after the match if it is something that needs to be spoken about to the referees, Lions coach Ivan van Rooyen said they would first have to review the match. ALSO READ: Dobson a happy man as Stormers move into second spot on URC table “In our review on Monday and Tuesday we will review that and then on Thursday we have a preview meeting with the referee. But we felt the same in Super Rugby with the Aussie and New Zealand teams. The only way for them to feel they can rest is to try delay the set pieces,” said Van Rooyen. “It’s a clear tactic coming here and I can’t go against a medical doctor but when you see two or three (players) simultaneously falling down you always ask questions. “If they get away with it or if it is allowed by the officials then kudos to them. Obviously in our review process we will take note of that, get feedback and share that with the team so we are better prepared for the next game.” Lions captain Burger Odendaal was also frustrated by the ref giving Connacht leeway at stages where he felt that the Lions dominance should have been rewarded, although he did admit that the visitors’ tactics did get to them. “Something that frustrated me a bit was he (the referee) chatted to both teams telling us that we had to pick up the discipline and to my mind that was a final warning before he was going to the pocket. I just felt after that it kept on happening and there were no consequences,” said Odendaal. “I felt they got under our skins as well. I think we have had a good disciplinary record in the competition, but in this game at certain stages we were ill-disciplined and I just felt there weren’t any consequences for them where we could have got one or two calls going our way.” When questioned about the tactics after the match, Connacht coach Andy Friend claimed that the team were suffering legitimate injuries and were just trying to keep 15 fit players on the pitch. “We had injuries. We had two HIAs, one returned which was good and one couldn’t get back out there which was disappointing. One of our looseheads in the warm up copped a knock to his eye and his whole eye closed over. So we had our battles out there,” said Friend. “We had to try and keep 15 fit men on the park. That’s the game of rugby, it’s a physical game as you know and sometimes you pick up the injuries.”