As is the case with most expectant moms, Natasha Thahane’s friends and family came together to host a baby shower for the starlet as her due date nears.A few days ago, she shared some pictures from the shower that took place at Suitability Gardens, an event venue not far from Vereeniging.For the shower, Natasha wore a long, flowy, orange tulle, off-the-shoulder dress with bell sleeves and had her hair up in a braided bun.  The event, planned by Nono Events, featured a mostly white theme with neutral accents so no clues as to what the gender of Natasha’s baby is yet. In addition to her friends and beloved family, famous friends like Zikhona Sodlaka (The Wife), Thandy Matlaila and Nozuko Ntshangase were in attendance. Star of the upcoming Netflix Africa drama titled Savage Beauty, Rosemary Zimu was also at the baby shower. The ​popular Blood & Water actress sent her fans into a frenzy last month, after she revealed that she will soon become a mother. Natasha made the announcement by posting a photo from her maternity shoot on her social media platforms. In the photo, she bares her belly in a silky crimson two-piece bralette and skirt against a silky crimson backdrop. Fellow celebrity moms, Minnie Dlamini, Loot Love, Samkelo Ndlovu, Rami Chuene and Cici all congratulated her. Fans also congratulated the star and got in their jokes playing on the DJ Mpahorisa song about Natasha Thahane’s last known boyfriend, soccer player Thembinkosi Lorch. It also brought up questions about whether or not Natasha and Thembinkosi are still together. The pair sparked dating rumours in June last year after travelling to Zanzibar at the same time and posted similar pictures from the same vantage point. They later gave in and stopped pretending they were not dating but things have been quiet on the publicity front for the couple recently.  At the time of writing, the couple were not following each other on Instagram. If the pair has split up, it would be incredibly awkward for all the people who rushed to congratulate the soccer player for Natasha Thahane’s pregnancy.   Natasha is most popular for her roles on shows like the Netflix smash hit Blood & Water, BET Africa’s Isono and Mzansi Magic’s The Queen. She recently made headlines after appearing on Podcast and Chill with MacG where she claimed to have had her studies in New York funded by the government.