Former radio journalist Barry Bateman announced he will be joining AfriForum’s private prosecutions unit from May as their communications manager. Bateman – who cut his teeth in print, radio and television journalism – made the announcement on Thursday. The seasoned journalist has been widely acknowledged for his work garnering a number of awards over the years. In 2013, he was among the Mail & Guardian’s 200 Young South Africans, and in 2014 Media Magazine included him in their list of Top 40 Under 40. He has also won the National Press Club’s Journalist of the Year. Bateman co-authored the book, Behind the Door with colleague Mandy Wiener on the trial of Oscar Pistorius for the February 2013 killing of his girlfriend, Reeva Steenkamp. Gerrie Nel – the head of AfriForum’s Private Prosecution Unit – was the lead prosecutor in the Oscar Pistorius trial. In the video posted on Twitter, Bateman said he is now embarking on his next adventure. “I will be joining Gerrie Nel and his team. I watched Gerrie launch the private prosecutions unit five years ago. I’ve watched them develop this concept of private prosecution. Their campaign to ensure that those who are politically shielded are ultimately held to account.” “I hope to bring my skills to the team and be able to tell you more about what they are doing. There is so much behind these big high-profile cases that we always hear about,” Bateman said. Bateman said he will still be telling stories. “Many of the biggest stories I have pursued in my career have been about holding those in power to account. Joining Nel’s team will contribute to that work, albeit from a different perspective. I look forward to bridging the gap between the incredible work of the unit and newsrooms across the country.” Nel said Bateman is a welcomed addition to the team. “Barry is another arrow in our quiver to deal with selective prosecutions and the collapse of the Criminal Justice system. He brings a distinctive skill set which will undoubtedly augment our strategy to establish further and develop the concept of private prosecutions.” AfriForum said in his new role Bateman will focus on bringing some of the inner workings of the private prosecution unit to the foreground, shedding light on the matters that do not necessarily reach the headlines. ALSO READ: AfriForum threatens legal action over new health regulations