Following the recent petrol spikes, hectic grocery price increases, raging floods and the frustration of load shedding, there sure is an urgency for some light comedy among South Africans, which is why WeBuyCars’ advertisement with comedian, Schalk Bezuidenhout came just at the right time. In an advertisement prompting consumers to sell their cars to the dealer and put some money back in their bank accounts, Schalk Bezuidenhout brings the message loud and clear with his witty humour and hilarious comments – some of which only South Africans would understand. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Neatly dressed (as only Schalk Bezuidenhout could) he seems to be indulging in the nose of a rather impressive and very expensive Courvoisier L’Essence Cognac or Bowmore Single Malt Scotch Whisky, entertainingly noting his experience on the nose of the specially poured drink, which is actually a glass of (expensive) petrol. READ: 5 reasons why Schalk Bezuidenhout is the ideal ‘Op My Eish!’ wingman “Okay, talk to me,” Schalk utters in anticipation as he carefully swirls the contents of the glass. “Elegant. Tough choice.” He continues contemplating over it, saying that it smells expensive.  “Majestic,” he whispers excitedly, noticing that it’s got a good consistency. And then, out of nowhere, he says it smells like a “papsak that went to private school” – something only a South African would be able to grasp and appreciate coming from the Kempton Park-bred comedian. Bezuidenhout’s expressions and brilliant acting skills are part of what makes the ad so hilarious and he even throws in a quote that sounds like something from Juanita du Plessis’ song, Ska-rumba. “Musk, Elon Musk,” he says. “This is gonna hurt the bank account.”  The struggle is real as he weighs his options, but in the end he is convinced and then says with certainty: “Yes, okay, let’s do it. I’ll take a full tank, please.” Bezuidenhout then hands the glass back to the petrol attendant, who seems to be taken aback by his client’s weird requests. It’s a true reflection of South Africans’ current predicaments relating to petrol prices and certainly makes one wonder what life would be without a car and the costs that come with it.