“Choppa, kap hom flou. Dubbelloop, maksimaal, goed, gaaf en geniepsig.” That’s comedian Schalk Bezuidenhout’s advice for his friend, Francois Jacobs, before the launch of the second season of kykNET’s Op My Eish! on Thursday, 14 April. The new season of the reality series will see Jacobs, also known as Kaalgat Karel, searching for love, with comedian Schalk Bezuidenhout keeping things cool as his wingman. It promises exciting twists and turns. According to Schalk, these are the reasons why he is the ideal wingman for his ‘Choppa,’ Francois: As comedians, one might draw the attention to yourself instead of the person you’re the wingman for.  Schalk says the personality traits of him you might spot during the Op My Eish! series include him trying to keep things flowing by taking a natural presenting approach.  “It just needs to feel like a conversation.” His humour will obviously also shine through.  “I like bringing humour into a reality series when I am the presenter. I also bring it in at the right times.”  Schalk claims to know very well when it is the right time and place to bring in humour.  “At the beginning of the series, things are still nice and loose and there are no serious feelings yet. Then you can bring in a lot more humour compared to towards the end, when things become more serious.” ALSO READ: Schalk Bezuidenhout gives Kendall Jenner a run for her money with sultry photoshoot Schalk says the ideal woman for his buddy Francois is one who is not jealous or controlling. “Francois is a loose cannon. He needs to be given the freedom to go and do his thing. He can’t date a girl who fights with him the next day, saying she saw on Instagram that he flashed his bum at Oppiekoppie. That is who he is. That’s what he does. Anyone who follows him on Instagram will know that.” Schalk also says that their career in the entertainment industry requires them working with the opposite sex all the time. “Francois so much more,” he says.  “Especially with scenes that are of a romantic nature. Sometimes you need to kiss someone, sometimes more than kiss,” he giggles. “So, yes, jealousy won’t work in our industry.” He further says Francois needs someone who has a lust for life; ants in her pants like Francois. Although Francois sometimes – with the emphasis on sometimes – enjoys sitting at home, watching a movie while enjoying a glass of red wine, he would more often much rather be “on something with wheels or wings.” Since the second season of Op My Eish!’s production has been concluded and the programme will soon be on the tellie, Schalk Bezuidenhout can now speak from experience, sharing some tips with those keen on entering next time:   Op My Eish! will also be available for viewing on DStv Catchup.