Kaizer Chiefs have announced that their ticket prices for home games have gone up.  According to the Amakhosi website, the prices which were previously between R40 and R80 depending on the level, will now start at R70. This has happened due to added operational costs that the club has to carry with the return of supporters under strict Covid-19 regulations.  “We would like to stress that government regulations necessitated additional operational requirements and manpower even at those prices, we are destined to run the event at a sizable loss,” explained FNB Stadium management company Stadium Management South Africa (SMSA) Bertie Grobler. READ ALSO: Pirates to get second spot fight back on track against struggling Baroka  “However, we are happy to work with the home club to ensure a safe and secure event compliant with legislation and government regulations,” added Grobbelaar. Amakhosi’s commercial director Jessica Motaung has meanwhile revealed that the club has been doing everything in its power to ensure a smooth ride when they welcome supporters in their home games at FNB Stadium. Amakhosi will play in front of supporters for the first time in two years when they host SuperSport United in a DStv Premiership match on Saturday evening.  Jessica said they have worked well with FNB Stadium management company Stadium Management South Africa (SMSA) to get everything in order for Saturday.  “Together with our partners SMSA, we have been working around the clock for a while now to try and get the ball rolling in order to ensure the seamless reintegration of fans into the FNB Stadium on match day.   “We know that we work with quite a big stadium and that comes with its own unique challenges especially now that there are other layers added at the security checkpoints,” says Jessica.  “We have prepared adequately and appeal to our supporters to comply with the safeguards put in place for their own well-being.” Bertie Grobbelaar of SMSA said the tickets are being sold via Ticket Master.  “We have looked at attendances and have seen some apathy from supporters, but we believe that they will slowly come back. In planning for the return of spectators we were requested by Kaizer Chiefs to align the additional operational requirements associated with current legislation, to an enhanced stadium experience for the fans. “This is inclusive of traffic and parking management and enough entry points to ensure smooth and quick access irrespective of the additional checks required in terms of the regulations. Another aspect is the ticketing experience. “We have asked Ticket Master for assurances that the fans will be able to access tickets with ease through new and familiar platforms. In addition to Ticket Master selling tickets online via credit or debit card, physical tickets will still be available through Computicket outlets and at Shoprite and Checkers.”