The newly-released Galaxy S22 series can power you from one day into the next – intelligently adapting to the way you use your phone. The amazing battery1 performance, which includes 45W superfast charging2 that can keep going – up to two days1, is just one of the many ground-breaking features of the Galaxy S22 series, which features the Galaxy S22, S22+ and Galaxy S22 Ultra. The Galaxy S22 series features the fastest chip ever on Galaxy to ensure you experience the benefits of its impressive performance in a myriad of beneficial ways.  Whether you’re vlogging your day, gaming all night or simply scrolling your feed, the 4nm processor makes for an incredibly smooth experience. This pioneering series comes also introduces Samsung’s most intelligent camera yet. You can now do more in the night with the big pixel sensor pulling in more light with minimal noise for movie set-level lighting, while the Super Clear and lens tone down lens flare for clear, bright frames3. Get ready for vivid footage whether you’re in the sun or under the stars. Taking productivity, creativity and versatility to new heights, Samsung is writing a new chapter in mobile innovation. Alongside the new Galaxy S22 series, Samsung has introduced an all new line of tablets and a pack of updated features for Galaxy Watch4 so that Galaxy users can stay connected in every aspect of their lives. Built for a new era of connectivity, Galaxy Tab S8 series ­— including Tab S8, Tab S8+ and Tab S8 Ultra — is Samsung’s most versatile line of tablets ever, built and designed to meet the ever-changing needs of those who work, study, play and create. With a battery1 that keeps up with your every seamless connection through the Galaxy ecosystem, what you can now do is truly incredible. The Galaxy S22 series is available nationwide, through network operators and retailers in-store and online. Those who choose to buy this device can choose the option to protect it against accidents including screen damage, with the peace of mind of Samsung Care+4. For more info on the Galaxy S22 series click here 1Estimated against the usage profile of an average/typical user. Independently assessed by Strategy Analytics between 2021.12.08–12.20 in USA and UK with pre-release versions of SM-S901, SM-S906, SM-S908 under default setting using 5G Sub6 networks (NOT tested under 5G mmWave network). Actual battery life varies by network environment, features and apps used, frequency of calls and messages, number of times charged, and many other factors. The total usage time with fully charged device may vary by usage behaviour. 2Based on Super-Fast Charging results from internal Samsung lab tests, conducted with 45W Travel Adapter while it has 0% of power remaining, with all the services, features and screen turned off. Actual charging speed may vary depending on the actual usage, charging conditions and other factors. 45W Travel Adapter sold separately. Use only Samsung-approved chargers and cables. 3Adaptive Pixel only works with high resolution photos, not at basic resolution 4Terms & Conditions apply. Samsung Care+, a dedicated product support service covering accidental damages, repairs and more must be activated within 30 days of purchase.