While the world is still marvelling at the fact that David and Victoria Beckham’s children are now old enough to start getting married, South Africans are celebrating musician Lloyiso who is said to have serenaded guests at the Beckham wedding. According to reports, the South African musician performed Only Fools Rush In as the couple shared their first dance as husband and wife on Saturday.While there are no pictures and videos of the performance as yet, Lloyiso promised fans that he would be sharing them in due course.  He also thanked fans for the messages of support he has been receiving since people found out that he had been booked to perform.  The booking comes just months after fellow musician, India Arie, gushed about Lloyiso’s talent.  Her video went viral and it prompted fans to remind Lloyiso to get back to India Arie after she revealed that she has sent him a direct message on social media which he had not responded to. “He sings with so much heart, and depth that it is striking!” exclaims a visibly excited Arie. She goes on to explain that Lloyiso’s talent is exceptional to her because a lot of people can sing notes but “it’s a rare thing to see people go to this place when they sing. He goes to this place…” Arie said she made this observation about Lloyiso after watching a series of his videos one evening. She concluded by asking him to get back to her via DM as she would be willing to offer him any kind of support. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The clip was taken from a longer video posted to her Instagram account which shows her shouting out to artists that she had recently discovered and fell in love with. Lloyiso’s song titled ‘Love Runs Deeper‘ was recently selected as the soundtrack for Disney’s global holiday season campaign, much to the delight of his fanbase which includes people like fellow musician Langa Mavuso and former collaborator DJ Zinhle. The 23-year-old singer from Uitenhage, Eastern Cape, first appeared on national television when he competed on season 11 of Idols SA in 2015. At the time Lloyiso was 16 years old and he made it all the way to the top five.Born, Loyiso Gijana, he changed his name after becoming a famous artist in an effort to distinguish his stage name from that of established musician, Loyiso Bala. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.