The South African Federation of Trade Unions (SAFTU) said its ‘gravely concerned’ about the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) delays which are affecting students who’ve been approved for funding. NSFAS passed the buck to National Treasury, saying it hadn’t yet received its allocation. Saftu however is not buying this, insisting that NSFAS and the National Treasury are two components of government.  “Even if NSFAS insulates itself from this citing delayed allocations from Treasury, its failures to disburse student funds on time and effectively in the past have created the basis upon which our confidence has been severely undermined,” said Saftu general secretary Zwelinzima Vavi. The union refused to be drawn into who between NSFAS and Treasury has failed students thus far. “For us, these two are but components of one government, and as such, they are government,” said Vavi. According to a City Press report last Sunday, NSFAS has received and  provisionally approved about 1.2 million student applications. Many students who are NSFAS beneficiaries come from townships and villages. “This means, that in order to reach their campuses; they must travel long distances from their homes,” explained Vavi. The union is concerned that parents could go into debt trying to raise money for student expenses such as transport and food in order to help their children who’ve been stranded by the delay. This shortfall has a knock-on effect on NSFAS beneficiaries’ abilities to buy their textbooks and other study material for the first semester. “Some universities have had to make advances to students so that they procure study material, but it is not all students who are assisted,” said Vavi. “Consequently, the collective experience of many students in the first semester or first year of their academic cycle is just that of anxiety and stress,” Vavi added. Saftu also raised concerns that the delays have jeopardised security for young female students who may be vulnerable to sexual advances in exchange for secure shelter and a daily meal. “Those who cannot rely on others for financial support tend to drop out or die of hunger and cold.  “Those who do not drop out, end up failing some modules,” said Vavi. Failing a module has devastating consequences for financial-aid students because they stand to lose their funding. “For students from poor working-class families, this will simply condemn them back to the villages and townships. “Motivational speakers like President Cyril Ramaphosa will encourage them to save R350 Social Relief of Distress Grant to start an ice-cream business or driven into a vicious cycle of pauperism, crime and violence,” concluded an angry Vavi.  NSFAS confirmed it will be making payment by Friday 8 April 2022. Compiled by Narissa Subramoney NOW READ: NSFAS to make payments to students on Friday