The South African Weather Service (SAWS) has issued a yellow level 2 warning for disruptive rainfall over the southern parts of KwaZulu-Natal and the Wild Coast of Eastern Cape in the early hours of Tuesday. Residents in these areas have been warned to watch out for localised flooding of susceptible informal settlements, low lying areas and bridges. Gauteng: Cloudy with morning fog patches in the south, otherwise partly cloudy and cool with isolated showers and thundershowers. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme Mpumalanga: Warm in the Lowveld, otherwise partly cloudy and cool with isolated showers and thundershowers. Limpopo: Partly cloudy and warm, with isolated showers and thundershowers in the south west. North West: Cloudy with morning fog patches in places, otherwise partly cloudy and cool to warm. Free State: Cloudy with morning fog patches in the east, otherwise partly cloudy and cool to warm, with isolated showers and thundershowers along the Lesotho boarder as well as in the extreme east. Northern Cape: Fine, becoming partly cloudy and cool to warm but hot in the west. The wind along the coast will be Moderate easterly becoming fresh to strong southerly-easterly from late afternoon. Western Cape: Fine and warm to hot, but cool weather along the south coast. It will become cloud with fog patches along the south-west coast from evening. The wind along the coast will be light easterly along the south coast, otherwise moderate to fresh southerly to south-westerly. The expected UVB sunburn index: High Western Cape: Fine and warm, but partly cloudy in the east. The wind along the coast will be Moderate northeasterly, becoming easterly, but light northerly west of St Francis at first. ALSO READ: Gauteng floods: Woman rescued from Jukskei River after heavy downpours Eastern half of the Eastern Cape: Cloudy and cool weather with isolated showers and thundershowers but scattered along the Wild Coast. The wind along the coast will be Moderate to fresh northeasterly, but south-easterly along the wild coast, becoming south-westerly in the afternoon. KwaZulu-Natal: Morning fog over the interior, otherwise cloudy and cool but warm in places in the north. Isolated showers and rain but scattered in the south. The wind along the coast will be Moderate to fresh southerly to south-westerly, becoming strong at times in the south. The expected UVB sunburn index: Moderate