The Congress of Traditional Leaders of South Africa (Contralesa), in partnership with Castle Milk Stout, has called on the government to officially add Ancestors’ Day as a national public holiday in light of preserving the country and continent’s culture.  With just two weeks to go until Ancestors’ Day, which was launched on May 2021, Contralesa secretary-general Zolani Mkiva argued that the day was a foundation they were laying to change systems and structures that have continued to marginalise Africans.  “It’s important that we have a transformed calendar for the country that finds an expression to the African majority of the country,” the cultural activist and poet laureate said.  “We should not be shy to take our place in society as the owners of this land. We are a product of those who came before us.”  He said the congress was not pleading with the government to recognise the holiday, but were simply doing what was right for Africans, as he also urged South Africans to celebrate and observe African spirituality and its role in their lives through ceremonies and rituals that honour their ancestors.  However, during a panel discussion, sangoma and spiritual storyteller Gogo Dineo Ndlanzi said Ancestors’ Day would be a catalyst to economic and social acceptance of people who believe and practise African spirituality.  ALSO READ: Traditional leaders angry with Mabuza, say their grievances have been ignored Ndlanzi said that this day would collapse distortions around African spirituality and would set a tone for the rest of Africa.  She emphasised that the day was the beginning of a meaningful movement within the institution of traditional leadership and the African heritage community.  “The stories of African history and spirituality have been told by the very same people who have distorted it,” she added.  Sangoma and Big Brother Mzansi season three winner Michelle “Mphowabadimo” Mvundla told the panel that the meaning of spirituality was lost along the way as many confused spirituality with demons and witchcraft.  “I will not rest until I see Ancestors’ Day on the national calendar,” she added.  Another panellist, historian Prince Zoza Shongwe, and Bishop Joshua Maponga said colonisation had forced Africans to forget who they were, where they came from and what they stood for, hence the conflict between African spirituality and religion.  “We are the ancestors of the future generations and how we act now will affect future generations. “We need to embrace ubuntu,” Shongwe said.  Meanwhile, according to Castle Milk Stout brand manager Khensani Mkhombo, the campaign exists to inspire Africans to rediscover and embrace their traditions and values in today’s modern world.  “It is important for us as individuals and as a society to promote the habit of embracing, celebrating and always preserving our culture – and not just on Heritage Day,” she said.  Mkhombo urged South Africans to sign a petition which calls for 8 May to be declared National Ancestors’ Day.