Many might point fingers at Themba Zwane and Andile Jali for missing and conceding a penalty  in the 1-1 draw against Petro Atletico on Saturday, which saw Mamelodi Sundowns knocked out of the Caf Champions League quarterfinals.  ALSO READ: Sundowns pay the penalty and crash out of Caf Champions League Trailing 2-1 from the first leg in Luanda, Zwane, who is Sundowns’ designated penalty taker, had an opportunity to put his side ahead at FNB Stadium, but squandered the chance from 12 yards, hitting the post. And after Brian Onyango had given Sundowns the lead,  Jali was found guilty of bringing down a Petro attacker in the box, which led to the visitors’ all-important away goal. Masandawana co-head coach Manqoba Mngqithi, however has come to the defence of the two, shielding the midfielders from being used as scapegoats. “Everybody understands how important this match was for us and we all wanted to win this trophy. I don’t want to get into the space of blaming those who made mistakes here and there because in football somebody must make a mistake for one (somebody else) to score,” said Mngqithi. “Sometimes the people who make mistakes are those who do good for you so it is very important as a coach and the leadership of the game to kill the blame-game because we are one team. If one person made a mistake, it means we all made a mistake. As coaches, we must be the ones who take the blame because these players are good for us and they have done well for us in many instances and they are still going to do well for us …. we must be willing to embrace them and show love,” he added. Mngqithi believes that his side played a lot better than the Angolans at FNB Stadium and is of the view that it was the finer details that cost them a semifinal spot. “It’s hurting too much … I still believe our team was the better team on the day but unfortunately that does not count when you did not put balls in the back of the net. In the Champions League, unlike in the PSL, you make one or two stupid mistakes and you get punished. “The goals we conceded in Angola were all very bad goals. It hurts because you know that your team is better than what it delivered. Maybe about 70 percent of the team did not perform to their full potential. We did not take the chances that we got and in football if you don’t take the chances that you get, you get punished,” said Mngqithi.