It is that time of year when spoiling your mum on Mother’s Day is a top priority and if you looking for ideas for your mother, these high tea spots will satisfy all her food needs.  Table Bay Hotel in Cape Town has mixed its high tea with a four-course menu on Mother’s Day.  The menu is prepared by executive sous chef Wesli Jacobs and his team.  It includes savoury dishes such as teriyaki chicken rice paper wraps, smoked snoek pate frittata with pea mousse and caviar, vetkoek filled with biltong pate, and Caprese tarts.  The second course consists of high tea staples – scones with jams, whipped cream and cheese.  Jacobs said in a statement they went creative with their savoury treats with unusual flavour pairings such as pumpkin and zucchini scones and matcha green tea banana bread.  For those with sweet tooths, the third course aims to satisfy you with an array of custard slices, macarons, chocolate raspberry tarts, lemon meringue, and Nutella cheesecake with hazelnut praline.  The fourth and final course is a selection of cheeses accompanied by traditional condiments. Dates: The high tea special is from 6 May to 8 May. Costs: R360 per person Time: 2pm to 3.30pm or 16h00 to 17h30. For more information email tablebaydining@suninternational.com or contact 021 406 5988.  Zioux in Sandton, high tea offering will take you on an exclusive journey in the typical style of the restaurant which is part of the Marble group and has described their new restaurant as a “playground for the adventurous”.  However, before the restaurant dips into its adventurous side in the evening they offer high tea served every Saturday from 11 am until 4 pm.  This is a good option if you looking to spoil mum before Sunday as the food is partly responsible by renowned chef David Higgs, however, Mike van Rooyen and Moses Moloi are the two head chefs at Zioux.   Expect fine gastronomy dining and plating, a feel of bourgeois and a tea presentation.  Because of this opulence, Zioux’s high tea costs R750 per person. Reservations are essential, contact 0105945455 to book your table. Not just a date with the girls, Davinci’s high tea is also hosted every Saturday from 2 pm until 5 pm.  Located at the Davinci Hotel & Suites in Sandton this high tea is surprisingly the most affordable in one of the fanciest settings.  Davinci’s high tea includes a welcome drink, buffet-style food and some soothing live entertainment.  The tea of choice of the day is the ever delicious cup of Ronnefeldt Tea.  There will be cold and hot stations with foods such as quiche in phyllo pastry, chicken pinchos, filled artisan rolls and plenty of your dessert favourites such as malva pudding and peppermint crisp.  Dates: Every Saturday Time: 2pm until 5pm Cost:  R355 per person This Durban hot spot, The Sugar Club located in Beverly Hills hotel hosts their afternoon high tea every week.  A monthly themed menu adds to the experience, as this May, “Pirates of the Caribbean” is the theme.  Expect to indulge in savoury tapa style foods and a selection of sweet pastries in line with the theme.  Date: Every Saturday Time: From 2.30pm Cost: R350 per person For bookings email beverlyhills.reservations@tsogosun.com The ever picturesque Fairlawns Boutique Hotel in Morningside, Johannesburg has quite a treat this Mothers Day.  Their high tea at the Amuse Bouche restaurant to enjoy an afternoon with live entertainment by Jacque Lagesse, and a selection of delights from the Fairlawns High Tea menu. Date: 8 May 2022, 12:30pm to 5pm Price: R695 per person For more information and bookings email: reservations3@fairlawns.co.za or contact 011 808 7300.