Local fashion designer, Gert-Johan Coetzee is known for his red-carpet couture, but also ready-to-wear collections and clever collaborations. He recently approached Europa Art to join forces with him for the Barbie Loves Gert partnership, to design and create the shoes that will form part of the collection.  Gert-Johan Coetzee and Barbie collaborated in November 2021, launching the South African-inspired ready-to-wear collection.  This included a one-of-a-kind couture dress made specifically to fit the number-one fashion doll in the world. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Says Melina Lambrakis, Director and Fashion Buyer of Europa Art Group: “Fashion runs through our veins at Europa Art, so it’s no secret that we’re a long-time fan of South African fashion designer, Gert-Johan Coetzee.”  She says that when they were approached by Gert-Johan Coetzee for the collaboration, they were delighted at the opportunity to work with one of South Africa’s most celebrated couture designers on the exciting project.  Using their knowledge and expertise in the craft of shoemaking since 1974, Europa Art worked hand-in-hand with Coetzee to bring the shoes for the collection to life. READ: Gert-Johan Coetzee takes fashion industry by storm with Barbie collab Comprising of 31 looks, the Barbie Loves Gert collection celebrates the unique style widely recognised by South Africans.  Gert-Johan Coetzee says: “I wanted Barbie to experience South Africa to its fullest by integrating an array of South African cultural elements into the collection – striking pink from the Pedi culture complimented by geometric patterns inspired by the Zulu culture. Using South African bead work in black and white, I took inspiration from the Xhosa culture. I wanted this collection to encapsulate a truly South African experience.” He says that when people look at the collaboration from around the world, they must feel inspired by the diversity of Africa, the richness of our culture and the beauty of our men and women. Actress Leandie du Randt certainly was inspired, wearing a bright pink suit at Gert-Johan Coetzee’s A/W22 x Chopard Collection launch, held at the Zebra Square Gallery.  She was also seen flaunting the newly launched shoes in collaboration with Barbie® and Europa Art on Instagram.  “Yes, it’s about the shoes,” she wrote in her caption.  “Barbie® Gert-Johan Coetzee available on his website by Europa Art. I’m obsessed. I just love the detail and can’t believe how comfortable it is.” Europa Art’s Lambrakis says it was such fun to design the shoes, with every little detail considered.  “After all, the devil is in the details when it comes to superior quality and lavish luxury. But with a passionate knowledge of exquisitely crafted footwear and a history that spans close to 50 years, it was an enjoyable project for Europa Art, and we are thrilled with the results. We know out customers will be too.” There are five styles to choose from, each available in two colourways.  The shoes from the Barbie Loves Gert collection and certain apparel pieces are available at select Europa Art stores, as well as online.  To find out more about the shoes and the ready-to-wear items, visit www.shopgert.com.