Right off the bat, the face value, the weight, and the screen size of the new Xiaomi Redmi Note 11 Pro is effortlessly light, and the user interface made a first good impression.  Xiaomi is a Chinese technology smartphone company that has grown leaps and bounds over the years.  At first, it was considered one of the top high-quality budget phones but now it is a top of the range device, competing with other major smartphone brands and it seems to be holding on to its own.  The new Redmi Note 11 Pro is equipped with a powerful Snapdragon 680 processor built on a flagship-level 6-nanometre processor to deliver a superior system performance while saving power.  Having used a Xiaomi phone in the past, the consistency of the performance is impressive, particularly over prolonged periods, it rarely slows down and the Redmi Note 11 Pro isn’t any different.  This is more so evident in the device’s battery, a 5 000 mAh large-capacity battery and 33W Pro fast charging that can fully charge between 15 minutes to an hour.  ALSO READ: New OPPO Reno7 5G smartphone now available in South Africa When connecting to the phone, Andriod devices have made it easier and seamless to connect Google Apps to your new device.  The Redmi Note 11 Pro packaging emphasises this, you won’t need to worry about losing your files, images, videos or apps on Google unless you have forgotten your Gmail password.  The Pro boasts a 6.67 inch FHD+ AMOLED display, is lightweight at 202 grams and has an effortless user interface.  The triple camera is compromised of an 8 MegaPixel (MP) ultra-wide-angle camera, 2MP macro camera, a 2MP depth sensor, and the front camera is 16MP to capture selfies.  The selfie mode is clear and for those who like authenticity in their pictures, the camera’s beautify mode is natural and quite clear.  The 108MP pro-grade main camera has a large sensor size of 1/1.52 inches and supports 9-in-1 pixel binning technology.  The video quality is also crystal clear, equally impressive in night mode as some camera’s focus shots lose their quality.  The Redmi Note 11 adjusts to the elements in live and moving shots helped by the Pro and ISO features.  What I did experience when taking a photo is the camera shot may look out of focus, a few photos are particularly dependent on the lighting and the focus on an object took a bit of time to zoom in however the photos rarely come out blurred but pleasantly surprising beautifully captured.  Take a look at some of the photos I took with the phone below:  As standard with medium to high range smartphones, the Redmi Note 11 Pro is equipped with a fingerprint sensor, biometrics with an AI Face Unlock feature, storage RAM of between 6GB RAM and 128GB memory, a sim one slot as well as space for a Hybrid Sim or MicroSD.  It does support 2G, 3G and 4G, as well as LTE, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth 5.1, NFC and IR Blaster.  Compared to its competitors this is not only adorable but a high-quality smartphone, a great choice for those looking for an alternative and still want to have access to Google apps which are unavailable with new Huawei phones on the market.    The Redmi Note 11 Pro is now available in SA.  The device is available on Takealot, MTN, or Vodacom from only R6499 in two colours, graphite gray or star blue.