Brought back to life last year after what had been a 30 year hiatus, Stellantis has added a new dimension to the Jeep Wagoneer and the more upscale Grand Wagoneer in the shape of two long wheelbase models. Similar to five-seat Grand Cherokee and seven-seat Grand Cherokee L, the extended wheelbase Wagoneer and Grand Wagoneer, affixed with the “L” suffix, differ from their siblings in length and boot space. While still underpinned by the Ram’s body-on-frame platform instead of the outgoing Alfa Romeo-developed Giorgio unibody used by the Giulia and Stelvio, Grand Cherokee, Grand Cherokee L and Maserati Grecale, Jeep has increased the overall length by 305 mm and the wheelbase by 178 mm while keeping width and height unchanged. ALSO READ: Back in charge: Jeep Wagoneer and Grand Wagoneer revealed This means both models now measure 5 758 mm in overall length with their wheelbases stretching 3 302 mm.  In terms of boot space, both the Wagoneer and Grand Wagoneer L still provide seating for seven or eight, with the former able to swallow between 1 192-3 707-litres of luggage, and the latter between 1 252 and 3 197-litres. Besides the added length, the rest of the exterior and interior continues unchanged from the standard models, with the same applying to the level of standard features, safety and driver assistance systems. What has however changed is the source of motivation underneath the bonnet. Hinted as far back as 2019 following the reveal of several patent drawings, the Wagoneer and Grand Wagoneer L serve as the first models to debut the new 3.0-litre straight-six twin-turbocharged petrol engine poised to eventually replace the long serving 5.7 Hemi V8. The first straight-six engine to power a Jeep model since the American Motors Corporation (AMC) era 4.0-litre that bowed out in 2006 with the TJ Wrangler, the new unit is said to be 15% more efficient than the Hemi bent-eight in addition to being more powerful. Carrying the Hurricane internal moniker already used by the hybridised 2.0-litre four-cylinder powering the Wrangler in North America and Chinese-market Grand Commander, the inline-six is paired to a revised eight-speed automatic gearbox with outputs of 313kW/635Nm in the Wagoneer L and 380kW/678Nm in the Grand Wagoneer L. As with the standard models, three all-wheel-drive system are offered; Quadra-Trac I, Quadra-Trac II with low range and Quadra-Trac III with an electronic limited slip. Again limited to the Grand Wagoneer is Quadra-Lift air suspension that offers up to 257 mm of ground clearance. As with their respective siblings, production of the Wagoneer and Grand Wagoneer L will take place at the same Warren Truck Plant in Michigan with prices to be announced later. While the South African arm of Stellantis will introduce the new Grand Cherokee to market later this year, the Wagoneer and Grand Wagoneer L, like the standard wheelbase models, won’t be made available anytime soon on account of being manufactured only with left-hand-drive.