From 5 May onwards The Wife on Showmax will no longer top social media trends lists as the show goes on a production break ahead of its third (and maybe final) season.  “The Wife will be going on a production break after the 5 May 2022 finale and is only returning in late 2022,” Showmax said in a statement.On that same day, the second season of Troukoors (Wedding Fever) will begin.  According to the streaming service, the show became the most-watched fictional Afrikaans series on Showmax when it launched in mid-December 2021. The hit romcom follows three best friends, wedding planner Jessica (Ilse-Lee van Niekerk); her sister Luca (Blyde Smit), a software developer; and her best friend Abi (Bianca Flanders), a professional baker. The final episodes of season two of The Wife will wrap the recent storyline which was focused on the love story between Zandile (Khanyi Mbau) and Nkosana (Mondli Makhoba).  Although the first three books in the Hlomu series – which the show is inspired from- became bestsellers, the show has been a bit of a hit and miss.The Wife rose up the Showmax viewership ranks in such a short space of time when it first began as both fans of the book series and viewers who were curious to find out what the hype was about clamoured to watch the show.  It quickly drew criticism for not staying true to the storyline that the book series’ lovers had fallen in love with while others found some fault with the general story-telling of the show.  Despite this criticism, viewers remained steadfast in watching the show. About a week ago, actress Gaisang Noge made her debut as Naledi ahead of the third season which is set to focus on her as she captures the heart of the most popular Zulu brother, Qhawe (Kwenzo Ngcobo).  Ngcobo is among the cast members of the show who were recently announced as nominees for the upcoming DStv Mzansi Viewers’ Choice Awards. The heartthrob is nominated in the Rising Star category while Abdul Khoza and Bonko Khoza (not related) are up for the Favourite Actor category for their roles as Nqoba and Mqhele respectively. Fellow The Wife fan favourite Zikhona Sodlaka, who plays Mandisa, is up for the Favourite Actress award. Fans have welcomed the break with the hopes that the show will improve.  Others called for the break months ago after deciding that they were done with the show.