The forensic investigator who collected evidence from the crime scene, Sergeant Thabo Mosia is currently under cross-examination by advocate Malesela Teffo who is representing four of the suspects.  Sifisokuhle Ntuli, Muzikawukhulelwa Sthemba Sibiya, Bongani Sandiso Ntanzi, Mthobisi Prince Ncube, and Mthokoziseni Ziphozonke Maphisa face a string of charges over the Bafana Bafana captains murder in Vosloorus in 2014. Meyiwa, who also captained the Orlando Pirates was gunned at the family home of his girlfriend, Afro gospel singer Kelly Khumalo, in Vosloorus, Gauteng.  Teffo’s clients, Sibiya, Ntanzi and Ncube, and Mapisa deny ever being at the crime scene before the 26 October 2014.  They also deny knowing who Zandile Khumalo is (Kelly’s sister), in relation to the attempted murder charge. During cross-examination, Teffo repeatedly butted heads with Mosia over his apparent lack-lustre answers.  Teffo reminded Mosia that he is under oath and that lying in court would result in a perjury charge. Mosia testified that information he had received before heading out to the crime scene, was that two African males had entered the house, one of which had a firearm. “The suspects demanded cash or cellphones. There was a scuffle in the kitchen, Kelly Khumalo ran from the sitting room into the first bedroom and the suspect tried to push it open,” he told the court. Despite there being seven occupants in the house at the time, Mosia said when he arrived on the scene Meyiwa’s body was removed, and presumably taken to the hospital.  Teffo, “Were you the first person from forensics to arrive and were you told what time the shooting happened?”  Mosia, “Yes, Brigadier Ndlovu told me the incident occurred after 20h00 in the evening.” Mosia also explained that by the time he arrived on the scene – there were only police officers. Teffo, “Did you ever speak or see the owner of the house? (Khumalo’s mother)  Mosia, “I saw her.”  Teffo, “Did you interview her?”  Mosia, “No.” Teffo, “Did you find the victim?”  Mosia, “No, he had already been taken to the hospital. On arrival, I found police members with Brigadier Ndlovu. Teffo, “Who took Senzo to the hospital?  Mosia, “I don’t know.”  Teffo, “So where do you get that he was taken to the hospital?”  Mosia, “I am using my discretion.” Teffo also came under fire a few times for his line of questioning, particularly when he grilled Mosia about his prior experience.  Judge Tshifhiwa Maumela intervened at some point and prohibited further questions about Mosia’s experience. State Prosecutor George Baloyi has also raised objections to Teffo’s cross exam of the NPA’s first and possibly star witness, to which Teffo replied Baloyi could object until he is blue in the face. “I am not here to make him comfortable.” The murder trial began yesterday (25 April 2022), nearly eight years after Meyiwa’s death. Proceedings began with Teffo asking the judge to remove Kelly Khumalo’s lawyer, Magdalene Moonsamy from court because she (Kelly) is a potential witness. After Judge Maumela ordered Moonsamy‘s removal, the state called Mosia, its first witness. The case is ongoing. NOW READ: Senzo Meyiwa murder trial: Kelly Khumalo’s lawyer ordered to leave court