The Lions have bulked up their Currie Cup side ahead of their clash against the Griquas at Wits University on Thursday (kick-off 3pm) as they desperately chase their first win of the competition. A number of United Rugby Championship regulars have been brought in to bolster the squad, allowing the Lions to name their strongest team to date. Although still a largely young team, the Lions juniors will be emboldened by their more senior reinforcements and will now be targeting a first win of the season against a tough Griquas outfit. “Our approach is always the same, we want to win the game. The players have to put up their hands to take the opportunity. It only takes one special moment for these guys to take their chance,” said Lions assistant coach Phillip Lemmer. “So the youngsters who get a chance to play must grab that opportunity and make full use of it and hopefully that will lead to a win that we desperately need in the Currie Cup.” In the match the Lions will be banking on their massive front row of JP Smith, Jaco Visagie and Carlu Sadie who will all be looking to make their presence felt, while loose forward Sibusiso Sangweni will want to impress from the side of the scrum. In the backline Andre Warner will be directing things from scrumhalf, while Tiaan Swanepoel will look to dictate things with his booming boot from fullback. Experienced heads Jannie du Plessis and Fred Zeilinga will then look to make an impact off the bench in the second half. ALSO READ: English rugby will be better off without Faf, Lood – Sale boss “The Griquas thrive on their pack of forwards, they like to maul everything and their backs are exciting, always running the ball as hard as they can. So the battle is going to start up front,” said Lemmer. “If the forwards can dominate and if we can control our set piece and put their set piece under pressure it will take a lot out of their armoury. “The kicking game will also be important. If we just kick it down field and are lazy on the kick chase they will punish us. So we need to kick well, if we can keep that constant pressure on them it can make a massive difference.” The other Currie Cup match taking place sees the unbeaten Cheetahs taking on Western Province in Cape Town at 4.45pm on Friday evening. The Sharks’ match against Bulls, scheduled for Durban on Saturday, has been called off due to the recent flooding and with no alternative option to reschedule the match it has been declared a draw with the teams sharing the points.