Studies show that work-day exercise, not only improves well-being but participants noted a 72% improvement in time management and workload completed on days when they exercised. Low-intensity aerobic exercise is more effective than high-intensity exercise for improving productivity. “Sit less, move more” workplace studies show that exercise boosts energies to recoup lost productivity. Ways that exercise increases your productivity Not only does exercise give you more energy and stop that afternoon fatigue slump, but exercise also keeps momentum and it improves mental capacity. In theory, exercise helps remove “brain fog”.  Exercise is shown to reduce stress, combat fatigue, improve performance and lead to fewer workday absenteeism. With exercise your sleep quality also improves, thus, you wake up feeling rested and ready to tackle another day.  Moreover, exercise increases your energy capacity, every time you exercise and push your limits, your body recovers and your energy capacity are increased. Exercise and work More and more companies are allowing employees to exercise at work. Big giants like Google led the way with in-office gyms and Nike has in-office yoga classes for their employees.  ALSO READ:How ending workouts by meditating go hand in hand Companies are noticing the benefits exercise has on employee productivity.  Let us look at which types of exercise are scientifically proven to increase productivity and creativity.  Exercise is recommended for a healthy lifestyle and the benefits of exercise improve attention span, accuracy, memory and how fast our brain processes information. All these benefits of exercise enable you to make decisions quickly and therefore increase your productivity.  Just doing a short exercise workout gives results and you don’t have to break a sweat to get your brain in top form. Increased productivity is noticeable within weeks. Exercise creates happiness. You feel energized you’re more efficient. The bottom line is exercise is better than medicine. Article contributed to by Thapelo Mowela