Stormers flyhalf Manie Libbok is fired up for the top of the table clash between log leading Leinster and the home side at the Cape Town Stadium on Saturday. Despite it being a weakened Leinster team, that lost to the Sharks this past weekend, Libbok believes that the Stormers still have to pull out all the stops if they want a positive result. “We are playing against the best team in the competition this weekend. Leinster is number one on the log for a reason, they are a very good team and even though they don’t have all of their players here it is still going to be a tough match,” said Libbok. “We are happy to be in the position that we are. We have worked hard to be second on the log, but we can’t relax and we have to be prepared for a big game this weekend. “They are a very strong and well drilled side, so we are going to have to bring our A game if we want to get the win.” ALSO READ: Out of playoff contention, Lions shift focus to next season The Stormers will take heart from their bonus point win over Glasgow Warriors over the past weekend. Unlike in previous games, where the Stormers have started well which set up their win, against Glasgow they got off to a very slow start before picking it up as the match went on. “It was a big performance from us to come back in that game. It was important for us to stay in the match, work our way back and secure the win before we could look at the bonus point, because Glasgow is a very good side,” explained Libbok. “They started very well and put our set piece under pressure in the early stages and we are not used to that. In previous games we have started very well before taking our foot off the pedal and allowing teams back in before finishing well. “So it was important for us to show that we can come back from a bad start and get stronger as the game went on until we got a good win.” The Stormers have made just three changes to their starting side from the one that faced Glasgow, with Warrick Gelant back at fullback, as Damian Willemse shifts to inside centre, with Rikus Pretorius out with concussion. Deon Fourie returns from injury to replace Junior Pokomela who drops to the bench, while JJ Kotze comes in for the injured Scarra Ntubeni, with emergency loan from the Cheetahs Wilmar Arnoldi on the bench. Stormers: Warrick Gelant, Seabelo Senatla, Ruhan Nel, Damian Willemse, Leolin Zas, Manie Libbok, Herschel Jantjies, Evan Roos, Hacjivah Dayimani, Deon Fourie, Marvin Orie, Adre Smith, Frans Malherbe, JJ Kotze, Steven Kitshoff (capt). Bench: Wilmar Arnoldi, Brok Harris, Neethling Fouche, Salmaan Moerat, Junior Pokomela, Ben-Jason Dixon, Paul de Wet, Juan de Jongh.