Bulls scrumhalf, Embrose Papier, and centre, Cornal Hendricks, are the only changes to the side’s starting XV that will face Benetton Rugby in a United Rugby Championship Round 16 match at Loftus Versfeld on Saturday. Papier, who has missed out on action in the previous two matches after sustaining a concussion in the match against the Dragons last month, will return to the team to continue where he left off with his good form while Zak Burger will provide No 9 cover from the bench. ALSO READ: URC referees boss Tappe’s take on Hawk-Eye and red cards The experienced Hendricks will be no stranger in the midfield where he will partner up with Lionel Mapoe as Stedman Gans is roped in as a replacement on the bench. The match will also provide an opportunity for the Bulls’ most recent signing, Dylan Smith, who has arrived in Tshwane early, to make his team and URC debut from the bench on Saturday. The talented front rower will provide cover at tighthead prop. Another change on the bench will include the return of hooker, Jan-Hendrik Wessels, from injury where he will provide backup for starting hooker, Johan Grobbelaar. The Bulls expect a testing encounter against the visiting team from Italy when they meet this weekend. “We are expecting a tough match against Benetton this weekend, as we found when we faced them in the final of the Rainbow Cup last year,” said Bulls director of rugby, Jake White. “They are a good side that has had some good wins against strong teams such as the Stormers and Edinburgh, among other wins this season. They will also be full of confidence with a full complement of their international players who were involved when Italy beat Wales not too long ago in the Six Nations.” The match will kick-off at 2pm. Bulls: Kurt-Lee Arendse, Canan Moodie, Lionel Mapoe, Cornal Hendricks, Madosh Tambwe, Chris Smith, Embrose Papier, Elrigh Louw, Cyle Brink, Marcell Coetzee (capt), Ruan Nortje, Walt Steenkamp, Mornay Smith, Johan Grobbelaar, Gerhard Steenekamp. Bench: Jan-Hendrik Wessels, Simphiwe Matanzima, Dylan Smith, Janko Swanepoel, Arno Botha, Zak Burger, Morne Steyn, Stedman Gans