The Ferguson family is marking a bittersweet moment of Shona Ferguson’s birthday on 30 April, as this is the first birthday without him since his passing last year.  Connie Ferguson shared a long tribute to her beloved husband who unexpectedly passed away in July 2021 after suffering complications from Covid-19.  “Ma Dude, this life thing is just not the same without you! I have stopped trying to understand or asking why? But nine months later, it still doesn’t feel real. My whole life feels like a dream.  “To say I miss you would be the biggest understatement! To go from doing absolutely EVERYTHING with someone, and suddenly not [having] them there with you physically, is the most crippling feeling, to say the least!” she wrote.  The Queen Mzansi Magic actress said the days without Shona are long and difficult. She shared videos of him on her timeline of his previous birthday celebrations.  Connie and her family have put a lot on their faith to get through this difficult period, however, on this day they are choosing to celebrate Shona as he would have turned 48 years old.  ALSO READ: ‘Breathtaking’: Connie Ferguson stuns in Mzansi Magic’s ‘The Queen’ wedding “So today, we celebrate you my LOVE! A legend, a man who loved without reservation, whose smile lit up the world, with an echoing laugh that melted hearts! A big guy with a big heart, whose sole purpose in life, was to positively impact the lives of those he encountered, in person or remotely… “The lives you touched and continue to touch! You were and truly are one of a kind! You will never be forgotten Mr Sho! EVER. Live, Love, Leave a Legacy! That’s exactly what you did. May you continue resting in peace my LOVE, and may your legacy live forever,” Connie said.   Daughter, Ali Ferguson said writing a message to her late father was strange and heartbreaking.  “It’s your first heavenly birthday. Unfortunately, I can’t run to your room and irritate you on this special day. It feels extremely weird and empties not having you around. I just miss you being here fa. But I know you’re resting in peace and watching over us. I love you so much Fede. Happy Birthday.”  Stepdaughter Lesedi Matsunyane-Ferguson concluded time hasn’t made it easy as his loss is still painful.