The season is slowly coming to a close and as it does, the pressure mounts for the teams at the bottom of the log, with the fight for survival in the DStv Premiership keeps on getting harder. Baroka are probably the team with more pressure looking at how the Limpopo based outfit has fared in this campaign. They are currently sitting at the bottom of the log with 17 points after 24 games in the league. READ ALSO: Is SuperSport’s failure to splash the cash on players sabotaging Tembo? But, three points would be enough for Bakgaga to get themselves out of automatic relegation at the moment with 14th placed TS Galaxy on 19 points, but again, that all depends on the results of the other teams above them. Baroka hosts an Orlando Pirates side that is on a quest to finish the season in second place on the log at the Peter Mokaba Stadium on Tuesday. Meanwhile, Swallows FC are also in danger of being relegated with the Dube Birds occupying 15th place on the standings having only accumulated 18 points in 23 games. Swallows go up against Maritzburg United at the Harry Gwala Stadium. The Birds have endured quite a difficult season, a totally different campaign to what they displayed last season on their return back to top flight football as they ended up finishing in sixth place. But, with six games remaining, there is still a chance for Swallows to claw their way up the table, but it definitely won’t be easy, especially as they have to go up against a Maritzburg side which is also fighting to distance themselves from the relegation zone. Maritzburg defender Clayton Daniels, knows Swallows will come out with guns blazing in this tie. “It is going to be a difficult game, it’s a team that is fighting relegation. It is a six pointer for us, and we are going to do everything to make sure that we get maximum points. I don’t think they will change a lot of personnel in their team. The only thing they might do is change formation, maybe play with three at the back with the wing backs,” said Daniels.