Dumisani Zuma has picked the right time to return to Kaizer Chiefs’ first team with stand-in coach Arthur Zwane more favourable to players expressing themselves. The diminutive Pietermaritzburg-born attacker is a kind of player who relies on his pace and skill to peel off defenders and set up chances for his teammates. He also scores a few himself. READ ALSO: GUILTY! PSL throw the book at Pirates over Sukazi incident Zuma has had some off-the-field problems which saw the club suspend him for a few months. Some have suggested that those arose from his frustrations with the restrictive playing strictures set-up by previous coaches at Naturena. He returned to action in Chiefs 1-0 loss to Stellenbosch FC last weekend and is now looking forward to making more appearances and helping the team stabilise after some turbulent times that saw former coach Stuart Baxter fired last week.  “It was a great feeling to be back on the pitch again,” Zuma says on the club’s official website. “I haven’t been playing for the past 10 months and I felt the nerves. I was scared a bit, it’s been a while since I played, but after 10 minutes in the game everything felt fine. “The first ball I received I was thinking to play it safe and not make mistakes, but after a few minutes I was comfortable and could be the Zuma people know.”  While his return was soured by the result, Zuma is hoping they will fare better when they meet Golden Arrows on Wednesday afternoon in a DStv fixtures that was rescheduled after Amakhosi failed to play it in December.  “We wanted to win the game… the team played well, but we will take that performance to the next game and I am confident we will win it. The preparations have gone well. Golden Arrows beat us in Johannesburg and we are going to Durban for a win. “But we know Golden Arrows like to drop back and catch us on the break. It’s going to be a tough game, but we are ready for it.”  The game is at Princess Magogo Stadium in KwaMashu and is set for a 3pm kick-off.