Manchester United footballer Cristiano Ronaldo has confirmed that his partner Georgina Rodriguez had been discharged from the hospital along with their surviving twin – a baby girl whose name has not yet been shared.“Home sweet home. Gio and our baby girl are finally together with us. We want to thank everyone for all the kind words and gestures,” wrote Ronaldo in a caption on Instagram on Thursday.  “Your support is very important and we all felt the love and respect that you have for our family. Now it’s time to be grateful for the life that we’ve just welcomed into this world,” he added.  Ronaldo and Georgina shared some sad news last week when they confirmed that their son had died at birth.  The couple made the announcement in a statement posted on Instagram on Monday. “It is with our deepest sadness that we have to announce that our baby boy has passed away. It is the greatest pain that any parents can feel,” read part of the statement. The couple did indicate, however, that the survival of the remaining twin provided some hope and happiness at this moment. “We would like to thank the doctors and nurses for all their expert care and support… Our baby boy, you are our angel. We will always love you,” concluded the couple as they asked for privacy during this time.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The footballer also thanked supporters of the sport after they showed him love during a recent match where they came together to sing “You’ll Never Walk Alone” at Anfield stadium ahead of a match he was set to play in.  “One world… One sport… One global family… Thanks, Anfield. Me and my family will never forget this moment of respect and compassion,” said Ronaldo.  According toThe Mirror, the gesture was planned ahead of the match in a post from a Reds Facebook fan page reading:  “If you are lucky enough to be attending the game tomorrow evening, then please show a mark of respect to Cristiano Ronaldo and his family by taking part in the round of applause which will be held on the seventh minute. Rivalries should be set aside in heart-breaking circumstances such as these. You’ll Never Walk Alone, CR7 Jr.” Cristiano Ronaldo, 37, and Georgina, 28, first announced that they were expecting twins last October. “Delighted to announce we are expecting twins? Our hearts are full of love – we can’t wait to meet you,” said the couple in a caption under an image of them holding scans of their twins.  Cristiano and Georgina – who have been together since 2016 – already have four children, three of whom were born to the Manchester United player from two surrogate mothers. According to The Sun, the children are named Cristiano Jr, 11, twins Eva and Mateo, four, and three-year-old Alana Martina, to who Georgina gave birth to. Their newborn daughter now brings the tally up to five children.