The third and final leg of the Work Riders’ Challenge is moving to a thrilling conclusion at the Vaal tomorrow as Phenisile Mongqawa and Sam Mosia fight it out for top honours. Mongqawa leads the race to the title with 72 points, followed by Mosia on 66. There is a gulf of 33 points to third-placed Anathi Feni so he and those behind him will need a Herculean effort to close the gap. While Mongqawa has the edge, Mosia could have the advantage as he has a full card of eight rides to Mongqawa’s five. But it will all come down to who performs better on the day as they receive points for finishing in the top four – 10 for a win, seven for second, five for third and three for fourth.   Mosia also appears to have the better rides as he has two strong favourites, both of them for trainer Paul Peter. The full edition of Wednesday’s Racing Express, as found in The Citizen, is available here In Race 3, a Maiden Plate for fillies and mares over 1400m, Mosia has been tasked to steer Lady Osier for leading trainer Paul Peter. This three-year-old just ran out of steam last time to finish a 1.50-length runner-up over 1450m with Mosia in the saddle. Lady Osier has been blowing more hot than cold and looks ready to take the next step in her racing career after six attempts at escaping the maiden ranks. However, the more promising ride comes up in Race 7, a Maiden Plate over 1000m, where he is aboard Double Magic, who has only run three times, placing in his last two starts. Mongqawa’s best point-scoring opportunities seem to be in Races 2 and 6, where Peter has entrusted him with La Banquiere and Gimme A Dream respectively. If one is seeking an outsider among the work riders, look no further than Tshepiso Matsoele. Currently in fifth spot with 30 points, he has probably picked up the best rides of all with huge winning chances in Races 1, 2 and 5. He has a lot of ground to make up but if everything falls into place, he could put some early pressure on the two leaders. The Challenge winner will walk away with a R20,000 first prize, the runner-up R10,000 with R5,000 for the third-placed finisher.