Two suspects aged 37 and 47 appeared before the Durban Magistrates’ Court on Friday morning after being arrested for being in possession of and dealing drugs worth R25,300.00. The duo was arrested this morning (Friday) at about 4 am, following an intelligence operation by the Stabilisation and Provincial Special Investigation and Tracing team. The team received information regarding drugs that were kept in one of the houses on Currie Road in the Berea policing area. Upon arrival, the team conducted a search and seized 110 pieces of rock cocaine and 11 loose packets of cocaine, valued at R25,300.00.  According to South African Police Service (Saps) Constable Thenjiswa Ngcobo, police also seized an amount of R3, 130.00, suspected to be the proceeds of the drugs. ALSO READ: Flying Squad raids Paarl Dagga farm Meanwhile, two men were nabbed by members of the Provincial Tracking Team for possession of illegal cigarettes worth R1.7 million on Monday, 25 April. The two suspects were arrested along the N1 north near Louis Trichardt. Police officials received a tip-off regarding a group of men allegedly travelling in several vehicles transporting illicit cigarettes from Zimbabwe to South Africa. They acted upon the intel and therefore the suspects were intercepted. Saps Lieutenant Colonel Malesela Ledwaba said, the four suspects vehicles were spotted driving in a convoy and police tried to stop them but they sped off. A car chase between officials and the suspects ensued; however, the suspects later abandoned their vehicles and ran on foot toward the nearby farms. The four vehicles were searched and about 130 boxes containing illicit cigarettes worth R1.7 million were confiscated. This comes after various police units in KwaZulu-Natal arrested suspects during an operation in Umlazi for possession of firearms. During a search in Umlazi, three pistols with 23 rounds of ammunition and three magazines were seized; and a total of six suspects aged between 20 and 28 were placed under arrest for unlawful possession of firearms, ammunition and possession of the stolen property. ALSO READ: 9 suspects arrested during drugs and firearms sting