The Lions were their own worst enemy as ill-discipline cost them as they slipped to a 33-30 (halftime 14-8) defeat against Connacht in their United Rugby Championship clash at Ellis Park on Saturday afternoon. The Lions outscored Connacht four tries to three, but the unerring boot of flyhalf Jack Carty kept his side in front, as they just managed to hold out to become the first overseas team to win at Ellis Park this season. Here are five key talking points from the match. A slow start to the match for the home side saw Connacht fly into a 14-0 lead within the first 10 minutes, leaving the Lions playing catch up rugby. With just three minutes gone, Connacht set up a lineout in the Lions 22m and attacked from it, with flank Cian Prendergast running a good line to crash over for the opening score.  Lions prop Ruan Dreyer then made two big errors, first being penalised at the scrum, and then pulling down a maul that was rumbling over the line, leading to a penalty try and yellow card for his troubles. A funny moment early in the match saw Lions lock Ruben Schoeman loose his studs, meaning he needed a new pair of boots. However he didn’t have a spare pair, so replacement prop Carlu Sadie leant his to Schoeman.  Then prop Ruan Dreyer received a yellow card, leading to Sadie coming on with another pair of boots so he could get his back, with Schoeman then putting on a third pair of boots with less than a quarter of the match played. The Lions twice in the first half opted to run balls from behind their goal line and were lucky not to be punished on both occasions. The first saw flyhalf Jordan Hendrikse bundled out of play behind his own line, leading to a scrum, penalty, lineout and penalty try.  The second saw wing Rabz Maxwane make a mini break but then throw a pass straight out of play, giving Connacht a lineout in the Lions 22m. The Lions were guilty of poor discipline throughout the match, but it was their discipline at the start of the match and at the end that proved costly. Their poor discipline at the start allowed Connacht to power into an early lead, with them never headed in the game.  The Lions then lost their discipline having valiantly fought back to 30-all with less than 10 minutes to go, but three penalties in quick succession gave Connacht back the impetus and the chance to slot the winning penalty. The Lions outscored Connacht three tries to one in the second half, but it was the value of making your kicks that ended up deciding the match. Lions flyhalf Hendrikse missed two conversions, one in each half, and a second half penalty to leave eight points out there.  Connacht flyhalf Jack Carty slotted his first five shots at goal before missing a penalty with eight minutes to go, but then nailed the winner three minutes later. Scorers Lions: Tries: Rabz Maxwane, Morne van den Berg, Edwill van der Merwe, Burger Odendaal; Conversions: Jordan Hendrikse (2); Penalties: Hendrikse (2) Connacht: Tries: Cian Prendergast, Penalty Try, Tom Daly; Conversions: Jack Carty (2); Penalties: Carty (4)