Once known for her signature high-heeled designs, Amina Muaddi recently found herself trending for all the wrong reasons. Curiosity about who she is spiked after rumours that rapper A$Ap Rocky cheated on his pregnant girlfriend Rihanna with Amina.  According to Google trends data, there had been over 50,000 searches for Amina Muaddi as of Thursday in South Africa alone.  This was after various American gossip blogs ran stories stating that Rihanna and Rocky (both 33) had broken up after she found out that he was cheating. The blogs ran with a tweet shared by Fashion blogger Louis Pisano. Allegedly this happened during Paris Fashion Week. https://t.co/G5V6MnPim9 This comes just a day after Rihanna was unveiled as the latest cover star of American Vogue where she posed for the magazine bearing her baby bump and spoke about pregnancy fashion, nesting and finding love with A$Ap Rocky.“What I love the most about us? Transparency with everything: how we’re feeling, what our goals are, what our fears and insecurities are… the vulnerability to be able to say what you feel about each other,” Rihanna told Vogue.  According to Daily Mail, Amina is a shoe designer and has worked on some designs for Rihanna’s Fenty footwear. Rihanna herself is often seen in custom shoes from her own label designed by Amina.The publication further reports that Amina is rumoured to have dated A$ap Rocky some years ago and had also worked with him on a few designs.  “She’s such a nice person. She sent me some Fenty clothes when she launched her own label – I feel amazing when I’m wearing them. There’s that swagger, you feel like you are channelling Rihanna,” Amina reportedly told British Vogue in a past interview. Amina Muaddi is also the latest cover star for Vogue Arabia.  Neither Rihanna, A$AP Rocky nor Amina have commented on the issue despite countess publications reaching out to their respective representatives.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Despite no official sources carrying the story, in addition to the fact that none of the parties involved have commented, fans have still shared their thoughts on the matter on social media.  Check out some of their reactions below:  Me on Twitter checking to see if that Rihanna & A$AP Rocky rumor true pic.twitter.com/toR6KLJY7s— ???????????????????????? ✪ (@Derron_McNelly) April 14, 2022 Forget the fact that she is Rihanna, cheating on a woman pregnant with your kid is insane lowkey— ͏layi (@layi_olusanya) April 14, 2022 cheating on rihanna is insane— juju ???? (@ihyjuju) April 14, 2022