SOCCER 10 POOL OF THE DAYThursday 7 April S10 V3 Jose Mourinho’s Roma return to Norway in the Uefa Conference League to take on Bodo/Glimt. who scored six goals past them late last year in an upset result. More details at www.soccer6.co.za. M1 Feyenoord Rotterdam vs Slavia Prague: These teams meet for the third time in the Europa Conference League, going head to head again in the quarter-finals having previously been paired in the group stage. Feyenoord finished six points ahead of Slavia to top Group E undefeated.M2 RB Leipzig vs Atalanta: Second in the Bundesliga in 2020/21, this is Leipzig’s fifth European campaign, all in the past five seasons. Atalanta dropped down to the Europa League after failing to make it three successful Champions League group stage campaigns in a rowM3 Bodo/Glimt vs Roma: Despite the shock of a 6-1 defeat in Norway, plus a 2-2 draw in the return, Roma pipped Bodø/Glimt to top spot in Europa Conference League Group C, hitting 18 goals – the most of any team in the group stage.M4 Eintracht Frankfurt vs Barcelona: Frankfurt eliminated Real Betis thanks to an own goal in the last minute of extra time to reach the last eight of the Europa League. After 17 successive years competing in the knockout rounds of the Champions League, Barcelona failed to progress from their group this season.M5 Leicester City vs PSV: While Leicester are encountering Dutch opponents for the first time, PSV have faced English clubs on 34 previous occasions with 10 wins, nine draw and 15 defeats. Their 17 trips to England have yielded just four wins.M6 Olympique Marseille vs PAOK Salonika: Marseille’s home record against Greek visitors is two wins and two defeats. PAOK have yet to win in four visits to France, drawing their first game there but losing the last three.M7 Sporting Braga vs Glasgow Rangers: This is the only one of the four Europa League quarter-final ties in which the teams have previously met, Braga and Rangers having been paired together once before, in the 2019/20 round of 32. The Scottish side prevailed in both matches.M8 West Ham United vs Olympique Lyonnais: Two teams who topped their Europa League before knocking out former competition winners in the round of 16 meet in the quarter-finals as West Ham and Lyon lock horns for the first time in European competition.M9 Fortaleza vs Colo Colo: Fortaleza have won eight of their past 10 outings, drawing the other two. Chile’s Colo-Colo missed last year’s edition of the Copa Libertadores but are back in this year’s group phase.M10 River Plate vs Racing Club: River Plate from Uruguay host the team top of the table in Argentina in the group stage of the Copa Sudamericana. Suggested permutation: R8.00 1 x 1 x 2,3 x 2,3 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 3