A high-quality new collector’s book, Kyalami Grand Prix Circuit – 60 Years of Memories. is now available to order to celebrate the iconic Johannesburg racetrack’s sixtieth anniversary. The book covers everything Kyalami, a favourite among racing legends, teams and fans, from when it was established in 1961 to the present day. It takes in the many Kyalami adventures; from the South African Grand Prix to the 9-Hour and myriad other international, national, regional plus club races over the years. A large format publication, the 400-page 30 cm by 30 cm Kyalami Grand Prix Circuit – 60 Years of Memories covers the circuit’s glorious 60 year history.  Published by Kyalami guru Denis Klopper of South African Motorsport Memories and edited by veteran motorsport scribe Roger Houghton with the foreword by Porsche South Africa boss Toby Venter, the book is packed with over 1200 images, many of which never published before.  Kyalami Grand Prix Circuit – 60 Years of Memories is divided into four main sections. The reader is first treated to 120 pages covering Kyalami’s incredible 60-year story from where it all began in 1961 and concluding with the 2021 Kyalami 9 Hour. Each year is summarised, with international race results and South African circuit racing champions listed, all illustrated by period images.  The book then goes into detail on Kyalami race history. Each page of this second section covers three years of racing and includes many of Kyalami’s hundreds of race programme covers.  From there, 60 Years of Memories takes the reader on a photographic journey of Kyalami Grand Prix Circuit history. Section 3 features the work of legendary motorsport photographers from Roger Swan, Colin Watling, Gavin Stapleton, and Malcolm Sampson, to David Pearson, Woody Rodseth, Keith Doig, Johan Pretorius, Paul Blackburn and Tony Alves. A large proportion of these over 800 detail captioned quality images that cover everything about racing at Kyalami have rarely been published before. Kyalami Grand Prix Circuit – 60 Years of Memories concludes with 100 pages comprising more than 200 special memories contributed by race drivers, riders, officials, journalists, photographers, sponsors, marshals, official, race fans and others who played a role in the circuit’s incredible history. Highlights include anecdotes from Jody Scheckter, Sir Jackie Stewart, Alain Prost and Kork Ballington, among many more international and local competitors, winners, champions and Kyalami legends.  Orders are open for Kyalami Grand Prix Circuit – 60 Years of Memories for delivery from May 2022. The book is available in either a 200-off limited run Publisher’s Edition, or a Standard Edition. The 60-off Collector’s Edition is sold out. The numbered Publisher’s Edition comes in hard cover, with a dust cover and a certificate of confirmation, and contains six unique prints at R3,950.  The Standard Edition is limited to pre-ordered copies at R1 950. It is presented in an embossed quality cover and printed on the same high quality as the Publishers Edition. Visit www.motorsportmemories.co.za to place your order for the Kyalami Grand Prix Circuit – 60 Years of Memories book now.