84 layers of “sponge” – that’s how many cakes it took to make a two-meter tall, 100kg cake in the likeness of Grammy award-winning artist Black Coffee that is estimated to cost about R85,000. The sweet treat was made by a company called Fine Bakes and they took to social media to show off their amazing creation which left followers awe-struck. “A life-size Cake of DJ @realblackcoffee, the tallest cake we have ever made,” said the company online.  The creation features a replica of the artist wearing the suit he wore to accept the Grammy he won last month, complete with a cake replica of the award.  The baker’s Instagram followers repeatedly tagged Black Coffee in the comments hoping that he would see the confection that was made in his honour. Black Coffee is currently in Indio, California for the annual Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival where he has been booked to play for a second time. It is unclear whether or not he has seen the creation. Fine Bakes is a company owned by Kurhula Makhuvele, a self-taught creative baker from Kempton Park, South Africa. She began making the marvellous confection in early April and documented parts of her process online. She finished after seven days. “Doing a life-size cake has always been my dream. I am so inspired to celebrate our very own. As you have seen guys I am obsessed with sculptured cakes. Black Coffee has won the grammy and Fine Bakes wants to create a life-size cake for our talented South African musician,” she explained in a caption under a picture of the artist holding his award.  “A cake that looks exactly like him and hopefully the same height as him, pretty cool right? The final product/cake will go to Buhlebezwe Children’s home. Will be celebrating this Easter with them,” she added. She also spoke to Kaya FM hosts Thomas and Skhumba about her creation on their “In The Morning” show.  According to Makhuvele, the cake has six flavours; vanilla, strawberry, blueberry, lemon, banana and chocolate.She estimated her Black Coffee cake to cost about R85,000 and took the hosts through her list of ingredients which includes 12 trays of eggs, 20kg of flour, 10kg of icing sugar, 15kg of castor sugar among other ingredients.She said she decided to take the cake to a children’s home in Tembisa to mark the moment for those children to remind them “you can be anything you want to be, the world is your stage.” Thomas and Skhumba then ordered a cake from her to mark the anniversary of their show which falls on 3 May.  “Yes.. amazing work… but can you eat it? It might be a “cake” but it’s maybe not edible,” commented Sherran-Nee Birk on Facebook. The baker simply replied “​​edible cake.”  “Amazing work! This is quite a feat to achieve. Wow!” commented Karishma Maharaj, while Kedibone Mashilo said “Pure talent, amazing work.”