Sharks coach Sean Everitt rates the Lions pack highly, but he was full of praise on Thursday for his own forwards and the wonderful improvement they have shown ahead of their United Rugby Championship clash at Kings Park on Saturday. The Lions have been playing some thrilling rugby of late, winning their last four URC matches, and it is their pack that has been laying the platform. Critics of the Sharks have been suggesting they need to boost the strength of their pack, but their forwards have been on the charge lately and Everitt has been delighted with their efforts. ALSO READ: Sharks eager to ‘build momentum’ against Lions “The forwards have put a lot of work in. Not too long ago they were considered our achilles heel, but I’m very proud of their wonderful performances lately,” Everitt said. “Our lineout has been good and our scrum has been dominant and earning penalties. That means we’ve been able to get good field position inside the opposition 22. “There’s been a lot of talk about the Lions scrum, and deservedly so. They are still the most effective scrum in the competition and they’ve earned the most penalties. “That allows their loose forwards, who are very good, into the game. But our all-Springbok front row has done very well too, so it’s going to be an interesting battle.” ALSO READ: Lions back 39-year-old Du Plessis to take on Sharks’ Ox The Sharks have made three changes to their pack, arguably making it stronger than the one that overwhelmed the Dragons last weekend, with first-choice flanks Siya Kolisi and Henco Venter, and lock Reniel Hugo returning to the starting XV, in place of James Venter, Jeandre Labuschagne and Le Roux Roets. All four of the Lions’ recent wins have come at home, at altitude, and now they have to travel to the subtropical lowlands of KwaZulu-Natal. While the drop in altitude will do little to their aerobic capacity, they may still find their vigorous style of rugby a bit harder to pull off in Durban. “In terms of altitude, the change will not have as much of an affect as when we go up there,” Everitt admitted, “but the conditions might not be as conducive to throwing the ball around. “There’s a very good chance that there will be some rain, which is not ideal. It makes conditions tough in the humidity and heat.”