TV Presenter and model Ayanda Thabethe has welcomed her first child, sharing a beautifully curated video on Wednesday morning.  She surprised everybody in January when she announced that she was pregnant with a baby boy.  Thabethe posted a 30-second long video on Instagram of her pregnancy journey, how she found out, her birth, and her partner supporting her throughout.  The black and white video starts with the birth date of Thabethe’s son which is 16 March 2022. It depicts her excitement, the doctor’s visits, her labour and her C-section birth. The caption of her video reads: “Finally, my forever has come.” Watch: The former Top Billing presenter held her gender reveal party in February, attended by close friends and family.  Familiar faces included TV chef and media personality Lorna Maseko and radio personality Anele Mdoda.  She then had an all blue baby shower in March, calling the celebration a “dream come true.” RELATED: Inside Ayanda Thabethe’s stylish gender reveal party Ayanda and her newborn birthdays are just a day apart.  “This birthday is extra special – carrying and birthing my dreams is by far the highlight of my year already. I also celebrate the love in my life in [my] partner, family, circle of friends and my community. I feel like I’m stepping into the best moments of my life and I couldn’t feel any more gratitude than I do right now. I pray for continued growth. Peace. Love. Wealth. Health and Abundance,” she wrote on her birthday on 17 March. In more good news, Ayanda and her sister, beauty content creator Lungile Thabethe launched their own makeup company a month ago.   The company is called Quick Face and is in partnership with Mr Price Fashion. Ayanda described Quick Face as “affordable, accessible and easy to use for women of all ages and ethnicities.” As in the name, it comes as a seven-step make-up routine that is simple, to give consumers a soft glam look, in one bag on the go.  READ NEXT: Inside Tamia and Andile Mpisane’s ‘Royal AM’ baby shower