Getting your hair constantly treated professional hair dressers can be quite costly, and if you are a busy person with a hectic schedule then it can be pretty difficult to honour hair appointments. If you are putting your hair under heat and harsh hair products on a regular basis, this can also ruin your hair and leave it dry or damaged over some time. Make use of these easy hacks and tips to save and protect your hair during the season of winter. Scalps usually release some oils that nourish and protect your hair, ensuring that your hair is never completely dry.   When you wash and shampoo your hair, you are washing out those essential oils, leaving your hair unprotected from dryness. During the season of winter, try washing your hair less frequently to take more advantage of the natural oils which your scalp releases.  Use a good quality shampoo when you do wash your hair to ensure that your hair stays clean and fresh for a longer period without needing to frequently wash your hair.  Adding too much heat to your hair tends to weaken your hair and damage the health of your hair.  A good way to avoid damaging your hair would be to air dry your hair after washing it.  This may be difficult in winter because of how cold it is, so if you are planning on using a blow dryer then you should invest in a good heat protection hair products to protect your hair from heat dryness and breakage. ALSO READ: Daily hacks: How to transform and sculpt your face using ‘mewing’ Hair is majorly impacted by the environment and the weather.  Wearing a hat or a beanie won’t only keep your head warm during winter, but it will also protect your hair from the cold air and wind. The material from hats and bins can cause friction against your hair which could lead to breakage.  To avoid this, try lining your hat or beanie with a silk or satin cloth to protect your hair and lock in moisture.  Hair oils assist in moisturizing your hair and keeping it healthy and happy.  Hair oils are also super convenient and easy to use, as most oils can be applied to wet hair directly after your wash, and also to dry hair when it needs a pick-me-up.  Apply oils to the mid length and ends of your hair when necessary as these are the areas that will need the added moisture most. Hair masks and treatments are the best way to keep your hair in the best condition for a longer period of time, but they require a lot of consistency and commitment.  Whenever you apply masks or treatments to your hair, leave the product on for the full amount of time recommended to reap maximum benefits.