Rugby captain Siya Kolisi and his wife Rachel recently celebrated 2 years since the birth of the Kolisi Foundation, and invited their loved ones over the weekend for the official launch of the foundation. Taking to social, Rachel shared some beautiful pictures taken at the launch from the stunning Belmond Mount Nelson Hotel venue and table decorations, to the friends and family who were in attendance. “I don’t know what to say, but thank you. We celebrated 2 years of @kolisi_foundation and the official launch! I’m still taking it all in, so overwhelmed, SO grateful. Remember the one, one by one,” said Kolisi in the caption of her post.  In the series of pictures posted on Instagram, the couple Siya is seen dressed in a black suit with a black buttoned down shirt, while Rachel is seen wearing a black and white scotch pattern dress with a black bow tie. The launch took place in the conference room of the Belmond Mount Nelson Hotel, and the room was filled with big round tables that each accommodated 9 guest, and were decorated with white table clothes, white crockery, silver cutlery and a colourful floral center piece that brought all of the decor together. ALSO READ: WATCH: Rachel Kolisi finally takes revenge on Siya for ‘that sleeping video’ Kolisi also shared a picture of a tray filled with an assortment of canapes prepared by Chef Aya which were offered to their guests throughout the event, before the main dishes were served.  Chef Aya also got the chance to visit the Kolisi home in June 2021 when he was given the opportunity to cook for Siya as well as his family on Father’s Day. Some public figures who were present at the Kolisi Foundation’s official launch were Bryan Habana, Siv Ngesi, Maps Maponyane, Scarra Ntubeni, Basetsana Kumalo, Siba Mtongana, and J Something entertained the crowd with a beautiful performance.  The Kolisi Foundation was founded to support people living in under-resourced communities in South Africa, by providing resources, facilitating capacity-building and horizontal learning exchange, while mobilizing and advocating for systematic change.