This hidden gem in the heart of Paarl, Western Cape, Cascade Country Manor leaves you awestruck with its ethereal views.  Situated on La Valle farm which is equally stunning with its views of roaming hills, different angles on the hilltops of Cascade Country Manor and its all-white exterior, the four-star boutique hotel played into April Fools Day announcing it was the chosen location for the Netflix period series Bridgerton, despite this being a joke it actually wouldn’t be a stretch.  The manor’s halls, staircases, and exterior are quite British colonial in their feel however the interior design is a mixture of old and new with its modern furnishings.  Once you get into the grand entrance and big wide gates, Cascade is transportation to a time that was marked by grand rooms and separate quarters for guests to enjoy when visiting.  One could easily assume that the century-old manor was owned by a person who enjoyed entertaining as Cascade offers breathtaking views of the Olive Valley and a pristine waterfall. The Citizen got to stay at Cascade Country Manor during the exciting excursion for the biggest olive brand in South Africa – Buffet Olives – as they unveiled a new olive range on the La Valle farm.  This was perfect as the guesthouse shares a border with the olive farm.  The proximity between the two is intentional.  During your stay, you can taste the olives, fresh from the valley farm as well as their amazing olive oil.  The olive oil is so luscious and buttery in its taste.  The owner of the manor Maika Goetze was a gracious host, as she showed us around informed up about an outdoor spa great for couples. Cascade Manor has a spa, and beautiful outdoor area, deluxe, standard and classic rooms.  The rooms are spacious and have an ensuite bathroom.  The room I stayed in had views of the valley overlooking the cobblestone courtyard.  The room features include air-conditioning, hairdryer, TV, minibar, complimentary tea and coffee. We were treated to sparkling wine as we overlooked the valley and were also lucky enough to enjoy a 30-minute spa, which was easily the best massage ever by masseuse Shirla.  For outdoor activities to bask in the views and the sunshine, hiking, private wine tours around Paarl and Franshoek are great options.  About a 40-minute drive from Cape Town International Airport, Cascade Country Manor is the perfect retreat.