Fitness bunny and socialite Sbahle Mpisane has started her own YouTube channel where she plans to give her viewers a look into every aspect of her personal life. The 27-year-old socialite took to social media earlier this week to announce that she will finally be opening up about the car accident which she was involved in sometime in 2018 which left her severely injured. “I am so happy to finally share this project with you, for the first time i finally open up about my car accident #UnmaskingMyself. “It has been a long journey since the 09/08/2018 having double thoughts on if I should open up or not. Thank you @boldly_owamie for reaching out and giving me that last push. “My story will be up tomorrow on my new YouTube channel at 10am, to subscribe the link is on my bio,” said Sbahle in the caption of her post. ALSO READ: Sbahle’s father says she is on the mend in hospital The fitness bunny was left fighting for her life in ICU after she allegedly lost control of her vehicle in the early hours of the morning on 9 August 2018. According to Rescue Care paramedics, when they arrived at the accident scene, Sbahle, who they found entrapped in the car and severely injured, was the only person who was present at the scene.  “We don’t know the cause of the accident, it was a single-vehicle involved, single occupant, a female in her 20s,” said Rescue Care spokesperson Garrith Jamieson. “She was entrapped in the vehicle, she critically injured, we placed her on a manual ventilator on the scene and then rushed her through to a nearby hospital for the treatment she needed,” said the Rescue Care paramedics.  During an interview that was shared on her YouTube channel, Sbahle revealed that the accident took place on her way home after she and a friend went out. She also stated that she was involved in the accident with her friend and that the friend was responsible for the accident. “My friends and I went out and we were all driving back home. The accident didn’t happen because I was drinking and driving, there was a situation and unfortunately, the cameras were not working.  “Something happened and I have come face to face with the situation, but I am grateful to be alive,” said Mpisane. Talking more about the accident, the fitness bunny shared that her mother had to pay thousands of Rands towards her medical treatments because she had cancelled her medical aid a month before the accident took place.  “A month before I was involved in the car accident, I cancelled my medical aid because I thought I was a fitness bunny and never ever got sick.  “When they took me to the hospital, my mom had to fork out thousands of Rands after learning that I had no medical aid,” said Mpisane. The interviewer then asked Sbahle about herself before the accident and the person she was before the incident changed her. The socialite revealed that what she misses the most about her old self was that she was extremely driven and had an interest in doing many things at once.