The funny farmer, Albertus Steenkamp whose ‘Boer Soek ’n Vrou’ entry video entertained young and old with his intriguing accent during the launch of the 14th season of the matchmaker series, has been arrested after making trouble when two traffic officers confronted him about driving under the influence. He’s been arrested for drunk driving, resistance to arrest and assault. Rapport writes that traffic officers Audrey Booysen and John Jors pulled a vehicle from the road last Saturday evening just before 11PM.  He had reportedly been driving on the wrong side of the road in Calvinia and they pulled him off.  The officers said that Steenkamp looked unsteady on his feet. Albertus apparently got aggressive when officer Booysen put her hand on his shoulder and told him that he was under arrest.  A source told Rapport that the ‘Boer Soek ’n Vrou’ farmer then pressed officer Jors against the chest, which led them to use pepper spray to calm him down and take him to the police station.  He was reportedly taken for blood tests and put behind bars. Albertus Steenkamp was supposed to appear in court last Monday but complained about pancreas pain, which led them to take him to the hospital under police surveillance, where he underwent tests.  He was later released on bail following the test results and then went to a hospital in Cape Town for further tests. Sources said that Steenkamp claimed to be suffering from a rare disease. The ’Boer Soek ’n Vrou’ farmer is apparently also waiting on the decision of the national prosecuting authority on whether anyone will be charged for the death of a worker, Isak Pienaar (43) on his farm, Perdekloof two years ago.  Pienaar apparently fell through the chimney on the roof of Albertus’ farmhouse in June 2020. It seems that Albertus Steenkamp’s jokes might have also gotten himself into trouble at a party in Stellenbosch just before the filming of the ‘Boer Soek ’n Vrou’ reunion episode.  His girlfriend at the time, Suzanne Lureman also attended the reunion, where Albertus apparently called fellow top 10 farmer, Mary-Lou Nash’s daughter’s boyfriend a ‘moffie’. READ: ‘Boer Soek ’n Vrou’ Season 14 ends on a high note Nash told Rapport that Albertus not only judged her daughter’s boyfriend, but he also insulted her for being American. She said she finds any sexist and homophobic remarks repulsive. Steenkamp needs to be back in court in July.