Gauteng Premier David Makhura has appointed Dr Nomonde Nolutshungu as the new head of the Gauteng Department of Health. Nolutshungu has close to 30 years of experience working in the public healthcare system at a provincial and national level. Nolutshungu will replace Dr Sibongile Zungu, who had been acting in the position since July 2021. Nolutshungu was the Minister Counsellor for health (Health Attaché) in the Washington District of Columbia, USA; and her role consisted of managing and leading South Africa’s diplomacy on global  public health with the government of the United States, its agencies, academic institutions, private sector, and large philanthropic organisations. Her line of work also includes being a chief director and cluster manager for HIV, Aids, TB and STIs at the national department of health. “Nolutshungu holds a Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (Mbbch) from the University of Witwatersrand, a graduate diploma and certificate in tropical medicine and hygiene, also attained from the University of Witwatersrand. She is currently registered for an MSc in medical immunology at the University of Pretoria,” Makhura’s spoeksperson Vuyo Mhaga said in a statement. ALSO READ: Covid-19 fifth wave likely expected in early May, warns Professor Abdool Karim Meanwhile, the Democratic Alliance (DA) on Monday raised concerns that the Gauteng Department of Health lacked effective leadership as Covid cases shot up in the province, in a likely fifth wave of infections ahead of the winter season. DA MPL and spokesperson for health in Gauteng, Jack Bloom, said in March the acting head of the department Dr Sibongile Zungu left for undisclosed reasons. Bloom also raised concerns that the department had not had a permanent head since Professor Mkhululi Lukhele resigned in October 2020, after he was implicated in the misspending of personal protective equipment (PPE) funds. Gauteng has recorded an increase in Covid-19 infections over the last few days. ALSO READ: DA concerned about Gauteng’s preparedness for possible Covid fifth wave