Audi in February officially rolled out a five-model e-tron fully-electric range locally. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Heading the pack is the beastly RS e-tron GT. This Audi e-tron is powered by two electric motors combining to produce a mouthwatering total of 440 kW and 830 Nm of torque, making it one of the most powerful fully-electric cars currently on offer in South Africa. The CItizen was fortunate enough to get their hands on the Audi RS e-tron GT his month and Road Test Editor Mark Jones wasted no time taking it to his home away from home, the Gerotek Testing Facilities, for a little spin. Needless to say, Mark was not left disappointed with this Audi e-tron. ALDO READ: Audi rolls out all-electric e-tron range in style This extraordinary e-tron needed only 3.25 seconds to reach 100km/h from a standstill to become the fastest electric car Mark has tested. But that time could be under serious threat when he finally gets to take the Porsche Taycan Turbo S to the test strip hopefully later this year. The 560kw/1050Nm Taycan Turbo S is the fastest electric car in the Porsche’s stable and has a claimed o to 100kmh time of 2.8 seconds. But for now, the proud owner of the number one ranking for the fastest electric car on Mark’s list belongs to the Audi RS e-tron GT, which shares the J1 platform with the Porsche Taycan. In addition to the e-tron’s impressive 0 to 100km/h time, it also completed the 0 to 200km/h in an eye-popping time of 8.16 seconds. That, is seriously fast. Watch this space over Easter Weekend to read Mark’s full road test report on this special Audi and see where it ranks on The Citizen’s all-time list of fastest cars. Some serious internal combustion engine powered rides like the BMW M5 Competition has reason to be concerned… For more information on the Audi e-tron range, click here.