Those who follow Angelique Gerber on social media would know that she has been very keen on boxing lately, training with Dricus du Plessis at CIT Boxing. On March 26th, the actress announced that she will be taking part in the first-ever female fight in a Boxop event, asking fans to tag the person they would like to see in the boxing ring with her. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. “P.S. I am doing this for every woman who can not fight for themselves, who can not escape their abuser, who has nowhere to go, who gets beaten with words and fists, who can no longer stand up. QUEEN, I am doing this for you!” she wrote in her announcement post. Various celebs were nominated in the comments following her post, including the likes of Karlien van Jaarsveld, Kiki Lacoco, Melinda Bam, Cindy Swanepoel, Marush Nel and Minki van der Westhuizen. Angelique Gerber’s opponent was announced on Boxop SA’s social media channels yesterday, saying: “Finally we get to announce Angelique Gerber’s opponent for the upcoming Sportland Boxop Edition 3 Ladies Fight. We present to you, fighting from the red corner, Tasché Burger.” READ: 24 hours in pictures, 14 April 2021 Tasché was the winner of M-Net’s The Voice SA’s third season in 2019, which landed her a record deal with Universal Music SA.  She released her first single, Die Een – which was recorded in the Van Coke studio in Cape Town – in August 2019. Following the announcement that she will be Angelique Gerber’s opponent for the match, she shared on Instagram that she has been wanting to box since she was little.  “The famous Rocky Balboa photo with his hand in the air was my Samsung S3 Mini wallpaper. I wanted to sing and box, but at that stage it was a little expensive and my mom didn’t want me to stand on stage with a broken tooth and perhaps a crooked nose. But it’s finally happening! Let’s go! In whose corner are you?” Soon after, celebrities like Francois van Coke and Charlize Bergh commented, claiming that they are in her corner.  “Team Tasché all the F way,” wrote Charlize Bergh. This will be the first of the celebrity fights taking place at Lottoland Sportland Boxop 3 in June.  Tickets are available on iTickets.