SOCCER 10 POOL OF THE DAYSaturday 23 April S10 V3 Kaizer Chiefs head to Stellenbosch FC just 48 hours after the sacking of Stuart Baxter, needing to win to keep up their hopes of finishing runners-up in the DStv Premiership. More details at www.soccer6.co.za. M1 Arsenal vs Manchester United: Arsenal have won two of their last three home games against the Red Devils, who beat the Gunners 3-2 at Old Trafford in December in their last meeting.M2 Lamontville Golden Arrows vs Sekhukhune United: Arrows play a first game since the sacking of coach Lehlohonolo Seema. Sekhukhune have a single win from their last 13 games.M3 TS Galaxy vs Maritzburg United: Galaxy won at the weekend away at Sekhukhune United to move out of the relegation zone and are now a single point behind Maritzburg United, also in danger of the drop.M4 Leicester City vs Aston Villa: Leicester return home after three successive away games. They are unbeaten in their last eight games at home. Villa have lost their last four games.M5 Manchester City vs Watford: Man City’s last home clash against Watford was an 8-0 victory. Watford got to the Etihad Stadium on the back of three successive defeats.M6 Norwich City vs Newcastle United: Norwich are looking to get off the bottom of the table. Three of the last four games between these two clubs have ended in draws.M7 Stellenbosch FC vs Kaizer Chiefs: Stellenbosch won away at Chiefs earlier this season. Before that the three previous meetings between the two clubs ended in draws.M8 Mamelodi Sundowns vs Petro de Luanda: Sundowns lost 2-1 away in Angola in the first leg of this African Champions League quarter-final tie.M9 Brentford vs Tottenham Hotspur: Brentford are on a run of three successive wins. Spurs’ lost to Brighton last weekend was a major blow to their hopes of competing in the Champions League next season.M10 Marumo Gallants vs SuperSport United: Gallants have already beaten SuperSport this season, winning 2-1 in Pretoria in November. SuperSport’s last outing was away win over Kaizer Chiefs. Suggested permutation:R64.00 1,2 x 1 x 1,2 x 1 x 1 x 1,2 x 1,2 x 1 x 3 x 2,3