The term ‘financial freedom’ rolls off the tongue quite easily, but it is not necessarily as easy to define or to achieve in practice. Achieving and maintaining financial freedom is a process and an ongoing journey of discipline, for which there are unfortunately no shortcuts. That said, you are not alone in understanding and getting the right products to support you on this journey. This article explores the key areas to understand in order to achieve financial freedom. This includes making the right choices with regard to planning, products and investments, all of which must be underpinned by a disciplined approach. Before getting into the details, it is useful to start by defining what financial freedom means to you. This is crucial, as it has different meanings for each individual, and the way you define it will set the scene for the decisions you need to make. For one person, financial freedom may simply mean being able to afford regular travel, for another it could mean the ability to afford quality education for their children. In its simplest form, achieving financial freedom means taking ownership of one’s financial position and having the ability to achieve one’s goals through all phases of life. Once you’ve defined what financial freedom means to you, the next step is to assess where you are now – relative to where you want to be. Draw up the landscape of your current financial position in respect of the following factors: With the help of your advisor, you can then develop a plan by:  Financial products alone do not pave the way to financial freedom. Instead, they provide the means to achieve financial freedom by helping you accumulate and preserve wealth. The table below highlights the key features of a variety of financial products to help you make more informed product choices that are suitable for your needs. As your financial freedom journey develops, you may need to adjust your plan accordingly. Revise your decisions, but always stick to the basic principle of financial discipline. A financial advisor can help you understand what you need to consider to achieve financial freedom, guide you in making more informed financial choices, and help you keep your plan and investment products on track. Jan van der Merwe is head of Actuarial and Product at PSG Wealth. This article originally appeared on Moneyweb and has been republished with permission. ALSO READ: SA consumers still overextended