In this week’s royal update, speculations over why Prince William and Kate Middleton skipped Brooklyn Beckham’s wedding are revealed, Queen Elizabeth II opens up about the after effects of Covid, and Prince Philip’s last words to his eldest son, Prince Charles are revealed.   Over the weekend, Brooklyn Beckham tied the knot with actress and director Nicola Anne Peltz in a beautiful white wedding which was attended by their friends and family. Usually, parents of the bride and groom get to add their closest friends to their children’s wedding guest list, and amongst Victoria and David’s extra guests where the duke and Duchess of Cambridge who did not honour their invitation and attend the wedding. According to Daily Mail, a source revealed that Prince William politely declined the invitation by sending a note which basically states that he and Kate are wishing them a great deal of joy, but they are unable to attend. The world renowned football star and Victoria’s Secret founder have had a good relationship with the Duke and Duchess, so much so that they were invited and in attendance at their wedding which took place in 2011. Royal critics and fans have shared their suspicions that Kate and William’s decision to not attend the Beckham wedding might be because Victoria and David were present at Prince Harry and Meghan Markle’s wedding, but Daily Mail’s source slammed those suspicions. “David’s attachment and history go back with William and Kate and they have a very strong relationship and they were their choice of wedding guest.  “It was always about them, it was never about Meghan and Harry,” said the source. ALSO READ: Royal news: The 90s jam Megan requested for her wedding, Kate and Prince William to relocate Queen Elizabeth II recently opened up a new hospital unit at the Royal London Hospital which has been named after her in a virtual ceremony.  The official dedication of the Queen Elizabeth unit is a critical care facility that was built in just five weeks during the pandemic, and has the capacity to house 155 patients in need of critical care. The 95-year-old monarch got the chance to speak to Covid-19 patience through a video call from Windsor Castle who are currently admitted to the hospital, as well as the doctors and nurses working in the critical unit.  While patience where expressing their struggles with dealing the virus, the monarch shared that she too has felt extremely exhausted after contracting the virus in February. “It does leave one very tired and exhausted, doesn’t it? This horrible pandemic,” said the Queen. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Before Prince Philip’s passing, royal family members were looking forward to his birthday which would have been just two months away as he would be celebrating a huge milestone, his 100th birthday.  In a BBC documentary celebrating Philip’s life, Prince Philip: The Family Remembers, Charles revealed the last phone call which he shared with his father where they were discussing the plans which they had to celebrate his birthday.  “We’re talking about your birthday! And whether there’s going to be a reception,” said Charles while shouting through the phone because he knew that there was a possibility that his father could not hear him properly.  “Well, I’ve got to be alive for it, haven’t I,” answered Philip. Charles told the BBC that he knew his father would say that, and that their final conversation ended with Philip sharing a happy memory of Charles. Prince Philip took his last breath hours after their final phone call.