Most life-long residents of areas surrounding Johannesburg will tell you that some areas are more central and accessible than others and Bredell is not one of those areas.  Bredell is one of the easternmost suburbs of Kempton Park, an area already considered to be quite a drive away so people who don’t live in the vicinity aren’t necessarily clamouring to make their way there. It is this reluctance to visit the area that, otherwise, would have prevented me from experiencing what the Amani Spa and Wellness located at the Radisson Hotel and Convention Centre, Johannesburg, O.R. Tambo has to offer. When entering the hotel premises, the spa is one of the first things you see from the outside and it is worth noting that the spas exterior does its beautiful interior no justice. Entering the hotel during our stay, we made our way past the heated pool and attached the lounging area to the reception where we were welcomed by kind staff who provided a tour of the recently built facilities.  The Radisson Hotel and Convention Centre, Johannesburg, O.R. Tambo Amani Spa and Wellness have beautiful, well-equipped facilities that could cater to a range of clientele, from mother-daughter duos to couples, bridal parties and groups of friends looking to mark many a milestone. While we marvelled at the well-equipped, on-site Tammy Taylor facilities ready to cater to most aesthetic needs, it was the massages we came for and after some brief time spent filling in a mandatory pre-treatment survey and a quick change in the locker rooms, we were ready for the treatment. The Amani Spa and Wellness therapists we got were gentle, attentive and on-the-money when it came to the massage techniques and the communication during the massage. When all was said and done, the one-hour massage turned into a treatment one would naturally return for time and time again. The one-hour full body massage was followed by some quiet time in the spa’s unique salt room which features a warm-feeling pink, fluffy interior contrary to the spa’s serene, greenish-blue, gold and marble decor. Himalayan salt rooms offer a natural and holistic treatment that has been known to aid in detoxifying the respiratory system, healing skin conditions, promoting better breathing as well as sounder sleep and overall wellness. As an element, salt is a proven naturally anti-inflammatory, antibacterial, antiviral and antifungal property. The back wall of the salt room is made of pink, crystal salt bricks and light, the salted mist is fed into the room at measured intervals while music lightly plays over the speakers. Ending off with a dip in the heated pool situated right next to a fully stocked bar and breakfast area, the Radisson Hotel and Convention Centre, Johannesburg, O.R. Tambo Amani Spa and Wellness makes for the perfect day visit or time out during a busy stay at the location. When all is said and done, you might either forget you’re in Bredell or view the area through some entirely new, purified and well-rested eyes.