Residents expressed concern over the quality of drinking water in eThekwini following the damage to reticulation infrastructure during the recent floods.  Even though potable water production has been compromised, the eThekwini Municipality assures residents that water is safe to drink.  The municipality and the uMgeni water reiterate the “quality of water provided by the City continues to be of good quality”.  “The bulk drinking water is monitored daily by experts from uMgeni Water, and weekly by eThekwini Municipality according to International Standard Organisation 17025 accredited laboratories”. In addition, all water distribution points are tested every two weeks, and water tankers at all filling points are also monitored on a regular basis.  Fears about the water being contaminated escalated when MEC Sipho Hlomuka said the risk of water-borne diseases increased. He called on residents to “exercise best hygiene practices” to mitigate the risk of contracting Typhoid Fever, Cholera, Giardia, Dysentery and E. coli. To manage the current water crisis, the municipality said water restrictions had been implemented in some areas to “manage demand while various supply systems are being repaired”.  Repairs were carried out this week along the South Coast Augmentation Pipeline, at oThongwathi Waterworks, and uMdloti Waterworks. To ensure water availability to residents, temporary repairs are currently being carried out while plans to “fully refurbish, upgrade and install a permanent supply network across the City” are being finalised.  The municipality said “water supply has improved in the inner west and outer west after the completion of critical repairs” this week.  Additional improvements are expected over the coming days. The municipality calls on residents to use water sparingly as it works to restore the supply. Water tankers have been dispatched to the “more challenging regions” – primarily in the central and northern regions.  Water leaks may be reported on the 24-hour line at 080-311-11-11, or via WhatsApp on 073-1483-477. Earlier, the head of Business Leadership SA (BLSA) Busi Mavuso expressed concern over the state of wastewater management in South Africa and cited the Green Drop report.  As per the report, “more than 60% of South Africa’s sewage and wastewater treatment works are in a “poor to critical” state.’ Mavuso said poor wastewater treatment exacerbated KZN’s current water supply problems.  “The devastating effects of the floods were exacerbated by the biggest wastewater treatment plants in KwaZulu-Natal not being functional, meaning effluent was washing into rivers and going into the sea.” NOW READ: Busi Mavuso raises alarm on state of wastewater management Additional reporting by Narissa Subramoney