Businessman Malcom X took to social media on Wednesday after Walter Sisulu University (WSU) student Sibongile Mani was sentenced to five years imprisonment to pledge half a million rand for her release. Mani, who was a student at WSU, was convicted of theft in February, after she spent R818 000 of the R14 million that was transferred into her account accidentally by National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) in 2017. Malcom wrote on Instagram: “I Malcom X hereby pledge R500 000 towards the R818 000 that the Walter Sisulu University Student, Sibongile Mani “accidentally” used from the R14 million “accidentally” transferred to her bank account. “Provided the payment of this money will lead to her immediate release from prison.” He further urged entrepreneurs to round up the remaining R318 000 as part of his pledge. During court proceedings in February, it was found that Mani intended to commit fraud, after it was discovered she was a student activist and understood the processes of financial aid. Throughout the court proceedings, Mani exercised her right to remain silent and declined to testify. “In preparation of this sentence divided R818 000 by R1 400 per month and allowances to other students. Keeping in mind that I’m told that on that morning you were hungry, you could not afford a quarter of a brown bread,” Magistrate Twanette Olivier said during Mani’s sentencing on Wednesday.  “Had you considered when you started spending lavish amounts on alcohol, luxuries cigarettes, airtime that if IntelliMali did not repay this money, 585 of your fellow students would not receive their money food allowance, and that That was a direct action of yourself.” Mani is currently out on R1 500 bail, while her legal team are working on attempts to have her conviction overturned. The R14 million was first paid to the WSU by NSFAS. The university then transferred the money over to Intellimali, which had the responsibility of transferring monthly food allowance and a book stipend to over 18,000 students. After the money was transferred into her account, she went on a spending spree with her friends, and  bought 11 blankets, bath sheets, shorts for men, alcohol, cigarettes, 24 jackets and handbags. ALSO READ: NSFAS thief sentenced to five years in jail