After first making headlines for the practice in January when the Jennifer’s Body actress wrote a message about her engagement to her musician partner on Instagram, Megan Fox has revealed that she and her partner Machine Gun Kelly drink each other’s blood “on occasion.” “Just as in every lifetime before this one and as in every lifetime that will follow it, I said yes and then we drank each other’s blood,” wrote Fox on Instagram.  In a new interview for the April 2022 issue of Glamour U.K., Megan revealed that she and Kelly have taken part in the bizarre custom “many times”. “Yes, we do consume each other’s blood on occasion for ritual purposes,” she matter-of-factly told the publication.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. “I read tarot cards and I’m into astrology and I’m doing all these metaphysical pratices and meditations. And I do rituals on full moons and new moons, and all these things, so, when I do it it’s a passage or it is used for a reason” added Megan Fox.She went on to state that it’s just a few drops at a time so the consumption is down “in a controlled way.” Fox further added that her fiance’s approach to the ritual is “more haphazard” as he is willing to “cut his chest open with broken glass and be like ‘take my soul’.” ​​Megan Denise Fox is an American actress and model who made multiple appearances in major film franchises, including the Transformers franchise. A post shared by Megan Fox (@meganfox) She has also covered numerous magazines such as Maxim, Rolling Stone, and FHM. She is the recipient of several accolades, including two Scream Awards and four Teen Choice Awards. She was married to fellow actor Brian Austin Green between 2010 and 2021. Machine Gun Kelly, is an American rapper, singer, musician, and actor whose real name is Colson Baker. He is noted for his compositional blending of contemporary and alternative hip hop with rock. Machine Gun Kelly released four mixtapes between 2007 and 2010 before signing with Bad Boy Records.