These five lionesses strolling in Kruger National Park did not mind or care that they were causing a traffic jam for tourists.  The viral video shows the five lions casually walking along the S110 tar road heading to Berg en Dal Rest Camp in the Kruger National Park. In the video, there is a long line of cars slowly moving along trying not to disturb the lions as they walk side by side on top of the hill, even taking some time to grab something to eat. The video has no commentary, emphasising only the natural elements with the sound of the chirping birds, and clicking cameras in the background as eager tourists take it all in.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. In a separate wildlife sighting video, a sad incident was witnessed by tourists in the Greater Kruger National Park.  The video, posted on the Latest Sightings YouTube channel sees a giraffe trying to save her dead calf from hyenas.  In the video, the hyenas’ are scavaging on the dead calf as the giraffe’s motherly instincts kick in as she is seen fighting off the hyenas who wanted to continue feeding on the dead calf.  ALSO READ: WATCH: Giraffe chases vehicle of tourists through KZN safari park The video was shared by 34-year-old Alexandra Olivieri.  She told Latest Sighting, witnessing the tragic moment was quite a shock and detailed how they stumbled on it.  “I was working at Kings Camp in the Timbavati when suddenly my tracker and I spotted a net of vultures coming down from the sky. “Ironically we had just been at the hyena den when we decided to investigate what the vultures were being attracted to. The scene was quite something. We didn’t expect to find a female giraffe fiercely fighting the hyena clan off the carcass of her (potentially) newborn calf.” “I’ve been a guide for about 10 years now, this definitely strikes me as one of the most memorable sightings in my career.” “It was quite a shock as we weren’t expecting such a scene. The fierceness of the female giraffe was just remarkable. I think that was what was the most shocking to us – her growling and stomping to fight the hyenas off.” Olivieri added: “When we eventually arrived at the sighting a hyena clan was feeding on the carcass. As the hyena social dynamics played out, a male lion appeared and stole the carcass from the hyenas and proceeded to finish it.” Compiled by Sandisiwe Mbhele