Having an egg-based breakfast after all these years can tend to get a little mundane after years of doing things the same way over and over again. This is why breakfast muffins can be a great way to enjoy a breakfast staple in new and tasty ways.Shake up your breakfast routine with these mini frittatas from Cafe Delites that provide three types of breakfast egg muffins to please every taste; spinach, tomato and mozzarella, bacon and cheddar and garlic, mushroom and peppers. Each recipe follows the same base routine which involves beating your eggs together with salt and pepper and some finely chopped onion.  You then pour the egg mixture into your pan and fill the tin with whatever you like. This one only requires three ingredients and tastes yummy drizzled with a little balsamic glaze.Ingredients:  This type of egg muffin only requires two ingredients and can be spruced up with chopped chives or scallions, chopped asparagus or zucchini, or served just the way they are. You can either spray a 12-capacity non-stick muffin tray with a light coating of non-stick oil spray or line each cup with paper liners.  “If you’re going to line them, be sure to get good quality non-stick liners (the same texture as parchment or baking paper),” advises recipe author Karina.  Another reason the recipe author loves these is that “even though they don’t have any flour or baking powder and are completely gluten-free, they are so fluffy when you bite into them!” The muffins puff up while they cook in the oven so fill up the muffin tray cups 3/4 of the way up to prevent overflow. Let your muffins cool for about 10 minutes before attempting to remove them. You can even run a plastic knife or spatula around the inside walls of the muffin holes to help loosen them if needed. Breakfast egg muffins are also great because they can be stored.  “Pack them into airtight containers and keep them in the refrigerator for up to 5 days. Make a batch in advance and then heat them up in the microwave (usually 10-15 seconds in enough) when ready to eat,” advises Karina.  You can also freeze breakfast egg muffins after letting them cool completely. Wrap them individually in plastic wrap and pop them in a freezer-safe ziplock bag. They can last for up to 2 months. To reheat frozen breakfast egg muffins, unwrap from the plastic wrap and fold them in a damp paper towel. Heat in the microwave in 20 second increments until warmed through.This recipe was found on cafedelites.com