An entertainment blogger who delivers his content via Twitter, known as Musa Khawula, may find himself in legal trouble after he doxxed popular beauty content creator Mihlali Ndamase.  Musa is known on the “Twitter streets” for exposing and reporting on local celebrities’ lives and having scoops on scandals before traditional media outlets have them.  However, the account’s recent reports have taken things up a notch and plainly made unfounded accusations about certain celebrities on a regular basis.  The captions accompanying certain posts are also becoming increasingly more outlandish. Whilst “spilling the tea” on Mihlali, the blogger posted screenshots of receipts that detailed the content creator’s personal details, such as her cellphone number and home address which were visible in the picture.  The tweet was reported and taken down after Twitter found it violated its rules against publishing such information.  According to security virus company Kaspersky, the term doxxing refers to “the act of revealing identifying information about someone online, such as their real name, home address, workplace, phone, financial, and other personal information. That information is then circulated to the public — without the victim’s permission.” Nowadays, “doxxing” is used to shame or punish people who would rather stay anonymous, because of their controversial beliefs or other types of non-mainstream activity. Things can take an even uglier turn by not just revealing an individual’s contact information but with instructions for people on the internet to harass or target that person in an effort to teach them a lesson. Musa went on to share videos of Mihlali, further making damning allegations against her.  People did criticise the blogger for his actions, especially due to the fact that the person behind the account seemed unbothered and unapologetic about what they have done.  Musa posted Mihlali’s telephone number, email address and home address publicly  in a country rated as the rape capital of the world. ????— kea (@kealey____) April 25, 2022 Praying for Mihlali’s safety above it all.— ????. (@bon_popsicle) April 25, 2022 I want Mihlali to make an example of Musa , dude why would you post someone’s personal details on this platform even? Now men are gonna be disgusting and harassing her ????— bhut’ omdala (@MprueDie) April 25, 2022 Mihlali has not responded to the Twitter rumours and instead focused on her business as she landed in Bostwana for the Forbes Africa under 30 summit.  Musa was also in hot water with DJ Sbu on Monday after he alleged the media personality “sent his thug friends to steal six of Zahara’s awards sets to release 10 NFT pieces on the 30th April 2022. “These allegations follow DJ Sbu after he swindled Zahara of her Loliwe funds,” alleged Musa. DJ Sbu was not happy with this tweet and warned Musa that he will take legal action against him if he did not delete the tweet by 5pm on Monday (25 April). DJ Sbu warned that the blogger would face an R1 million lawsuit.  However, the tweet has not been deleted instead Musa cheekily added “allegedly” to his follow up tweets. Zahara has claimed she hasn’t received much of her earnings and royalties for her smash hit albums Loliwe, Phendula and Country Girl during the time she was signed to DJ Sbu’s record label TS Record.  She left the label in 2017.