It looks like now might be the ideal time of the year to pack your bags and go camping. Television and Survivor SA presenter, Nico Panagio and his family have been spotted doing some mid-week camping at the beautiful Kleine Eike Estate just outside of Greyton this week, sharing some of their special moments with friends and fans online. READ: Six of the best riverside campsites in SA The celebrity couple and their daughters are keen adventurers, always on the hunt for the perfect camping and hiking spots around the Cape, especially those that are pet friendly. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. “Midweek camping trip next to the river at the gorgeous @kleineeike just outside Greyton,” wrote Christi Panagio in an Instagram post.  In the post, their two daughters with their matching leggings provide the perfect family holiday backdrop, with their Hugarian Vizsla lazily laying in front. “Because, life.” The actress, model and mom also shared a photo of her husband, Nico Panagio the Survivor SA man braaiing on the riverbed, holding a knife in his hand. “#dontMESwithhim,” was the hashtag she opted for. “That’ll do… (The river too),” Christi said about the photo of her hunky hubby. Moments later she shared another photo of her and Nico with their feet up at the fire.  “Bliss.” In the picture they both wear comfy, matching slippers – ample proof that the Survivor presenter and his wife are still as in love as ever. The celebrity couple’s latest camping spot, Kleine Eike is a fruit and guest farm located 9km outside of Greyton, offering lovely riverside camping spots and the most beautiful views, especially this time of the year.  They have also been testing out numerous other hiking and camping spots, including the lovely Southern Yurts – which are more for glamping type of campers – and the beautiful Grootvadersbosch.  They’ve also recently hiked up Elsie’s peak – a must for sunset chasers.