Since the Covid-19 pandemic began, families over the world have been encouraged to celebrate all special occasions and holidays indoors from the comfort of their home to protect themselves from the virus, but to also save money wherever they can. Here are some fun and exciting ways to celebrate the upcoming Easter Weekend without spending too much money and burning a whole in your pockets: Decorating Easter eggs during the Easter period has been a tradition all over the globe for many years.  This activity allows for you to decorate your home ahead of the festivities, and also bond with your loved ones while everyone gets the chance to showcase their artistic abilities.  Grab some eggs from your fridge and boil them to use for your Easter egg decorating festivity.  You can also go out and buy some cheap plastic or wooden eggs to decorate if you do not want to use or waste the eggs in your kitchen.  Throughout the country many shopping centers, malls and restaurants will be hosting Easter egg hunts for children, as well as adults. To ensure that you enjoy your Easter weekend to the fullest from the comfort of your home, you can host your own little Easter egg hunt in your backyard for some Easter fun for your children. Invite some of your family members as well as close family friends to join in on the festivity and make it a grand backyard event.  If you plan on hosting or giving out Easter goody bags then it would be best to buy everything such as your Easter eggs and chocolates in bulk as this will be cheaper than buying things individually.  Buying in bulk also ensures that you do not run out of food or goodies throughout the holiday. ALSO READ: 9 fun Easter holiday activities for kids If you are planning on hosting your friends and family during the Easter weekend, then you should consider getting your loved ones to pitch in on buying the ingredients you would need to create the recipes you will be serving. Another way to cut costs would be to ask your each of your guests to bring a ready made dish which will be shared and eaten together with the other dishes prepared for the gathering. This will ensure that everyone puts in effort for the feast, and that you are not given the full responsibility of cooking and preparing all the dishes for the gathering.  Grab the kids and head into the kitchen to recreate delicious, fresh and yummy fun-to-bake goodies which can be enjoyed over the Easter weekend.  Baking your own goodies is far cheaper than buying them, and with baking your own stuff, you can make extra batches and gift them to your loved ones for the holiday. Celebrate the season of new life by planting something with your loved ones in your garden.  You can make use of half egg shells, egg cartons, and holiday themed clay pots in the spirit of the holiday to plant your seedlings.  Once your plants have successfully sprouted then they can be transferred into bigger clay pots or directly into the ground in your backyards garden.