After a chaotic week for actor SK Khoza, the star apologised for the viral videos that depicted him in a bad light. The actor, who once starred as Shaka Khoza in the popular Mzansi Magic telenovela The Queen was seen in a couple of videos wearing an orange sweater and grey pants, trying to get into physical altercations with multiple people. Speculation was rife on social media that SK may have been under the influence of either drugs or alcohol as he appeared wary of his surroundings.  A week later the star has reflected back on his actions.  He wrote on Instagram: “Forgive me for I have sinned and was trapped in a very dark space, to everyone that I was rude and mean to…my deepest apologies.” SK also shared a cryptic quote with the image of a snakes and ladders game, it read: “This game is teaching us something at a very young age. In life, we have to climb many ladders to get to the top but along the way, we’ll find snakes that want to bring you down. The aim is not to give up, keep pushing even if it means you have to start again.” Abdul Khoza, who is one of the star leads in The Wife on Showmax and is SK’s younger brother responded to the quote.  “Well said big bro [and] also it still teaches that one way or another, we have to go through the snakes. “Profound” sunno. Peace [and] Love,” Abdul wrote.   There are those who speculated that SK’s actions may have been a result of an underlying and untreated psychological issue. Celebrities such as Minnie Dlamini, Boity Thulo, DJ Sbu and Thembis Mdoda shared their support for SK after his apology.  Minnie wrote: “ Sending loads of love and positive energy.” Mdoda commented: “There is nothing He can’t do and there’s nothing you can’t do through Him. It. Is. Well.”  There was more speculation on social media, as neticitizens alleged one of the mothers of his children Gogo Maweni was the cause behind the misfortune that had befallen the father of her children.  RELATED: Gogo Maweni ‘spoke to the ancestors’ about SK Khoza Speaking on Ukhozi FM earlier last week, Gogo Maweni reiterated a point she says she had made earlier this year with her statement, “If my kids don’t eat, no one will eat.”