The state owned SABC has appointed Moshoeshoe Monare as the new group executive for news and current affairs. Monare takes over from Phathiswa Magopeni, who was fired earlier this year after she was found guilty of misconduct. ALSO READ: SABC news boss Phathiswa Magopeni fired In a statement on Thursday, the SABC said Monare would take over his new role effective from 1 June 2022. Monare has 25 years of experience in the media industry and is currently the managing director of operations and corporate services at Arena Holdings. “He has also served on the boards of several organisations including Tiso Blackstar, the Media Development and Diversity Agency and Publishers Support Services,” the SABC said. “Prior to assuming executive roles, Monare spent almost two decades in editorial operations as a reporter for the Pretoria News, The Star, Sunday Times and the SABC before occupying senior editorial positions as the editor of the Sunday Independent, deputy editor of Mail & Guardian, group political editor of Independent Newspapers, executive editor of The Star and managing editor of the Sunday Times and The Times. “He also served as a member of the adjudication panel of the Press Council and is a former deputy chairperson of Sanef.” The SABC wished Monare well in his new role. In January, the public broadcaster fired Magopeni after she was found guilty of misconduct for failing to stop the broadcast of an interdicted episode of the SABC’s current affairs programme, Special Assignment.  Magopeni faced an internal disciplinary hearing headed by advocate Nazeer Cassim.  She faced three charges that included failure to discharge her fiduciary duties and bringing the public broadcaster into disrepute. Cassim recommended in December last year that Magopeni be given a warning. Magopeni claimed that the Special Assignment incident was used to “hound” her out of the public broadcaster even though she was not responsible for the airing of the programme. She also accused SABC CEO Madoda Mxakwe and board chairperson Bongumusa Makhathini of editorial interference in the lead-up to last year’s local government elections. Compiled by Thapelo Lekabe NOW READ:  ‘I fear for my life,’ says SABC news chief after accusations of hurting ANC’s electoral showing