While it remains unclear exactly why American musician Kelly Rowland was in South Africa, she did use the interest in her visit to put the spotlight on a few local businesses.Although The Saxon hotel needs no marketing help, Kelly indicated she may have been resting there during her stay in the country.  The Saxon is favoured by major stars such as Trevor Noah and Kelly’s lifelong friend, Beyoncé Knowles Carter and her husband Jay Z (Shawn Carter) due to its premium privacy and security.According to recent posts on her Instagram, when she did leave her hotel, she ventured out to some local businesses.  Here’s where Kelly Rowland went while in South Africa. Kelly posted a picture of herself and Chef Wandile Mabaso at his Bryanston restaurant where she said the food was “stunning.” The Citizen recently say down with Mabaso after he won his first culinary award in South Africa when he was named Chef of the Year at the Luxe Restaurant Awards.  He spent over a decade overseas, working in many top restaurants across the globe. He has also cooked for Kelly’s friends, Beyonce and Jay Z.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Shortly before she left, Rowland was gifted a custom pair of Bathu sneakers.  Bathu is a homegrown sneaker brand and the brainchild of Theo Baloyi – a qualified accountant who founded the brand in 2015.  It now has 15 flagship stores around the country. Last year, he spoke to The Citizen about how the brand’s turnover grew by 73% in 2020.  Earlier this year, seasoned dancer Bontle Modiselle announced she had finally taken the huge step of launching her own dance studio. She teased the launch by posting a series of seductive dance tutorials for the month of love (February). Modiselle appeared in a video on Kelly Rowland’s feed where Rowland called Bontle “the most brilliant, honest and authentic brown South African beauty” and said that she had just given her “the most amazing dance lesson of her life.” Sunday World reports Rowland was in the country to film an advert with the alcohol brand Brutal Fruit.  Brutal Fruit recently launched its own fragrance called “You Belong” but it is unclear if she would be promoting the alcoholic beverage or the fragrance.  READ NEXT: Kelly Rowland is in SA, but where is Anele?