Award-winning actor Will Smith has taken the option to travel halfway across the world to go on a “spiritual” journey.  It was reported byPeople magazine that the Oscar-winning actor is planning to practice yoga and meditation during his time in Mumbai, India, according to an insider. What was supposed to be a pinnacle moment as an Oscar-award-winning actor was tainted for Will when he lost his composure and slapped Chris Rock after the comedian and host made a joke about Smith’s wife Jada Pinkett Smith.  Media outlets reported the King Richard actor arrived in Mumbai, India last weekend.  The famous actor was spotted by locals after he landed at a private airport on 23 April. This isn’t the first time he has visited Mumbai, he last did so in 2019.   It was reported by US Weekly that Will’s wife Jada Pinkett Smith insisted he go and not cancel his trip.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The Oscar slap aftermath resulted in a 10-year ban from attending the Oscars as the Academy deemed his actions “unacceptable” and overshadowed the night’s events.   However, during the duration of the ban, Will can still be nominated and even win an Oscar award.  The actor also removed himself as a member of the Academy, apologised and described his actions at the Oscars as “shocking, painful and inexcusable”. “I am resigning from membership in the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, and will accept any further consequences the Board deems appropriate,” said Smith — only the fifth Black man to win the movie world’s highest individual award for an actor.  Jada recently said in a written statement that their family is focused on “deep healing”, the actress’s statement was shown on the Red Table Talk season five premiere.  “Considering all that has happened in the last few weeks, the Smith family has been focusing on deep healing. Some of the discoveries around our healing will be shared at the table when the time calls.”