It’s time to pack away the summer attire and make space for cuddly coats and brown boots.  Winter is here and if you’re wondering what you need in your wardrobe to help you look stylish this season, these should suffice as some helpful guidelines. Although dopamine dressing is the trend of the season, investing in a couple of classics, and neutral items are key as they allow for comfortable mixing and matching with other clothing items.  Actress Donnalee Roberts’ fashion company, The Romantic Collective has just gone live with their winter range, which features a lot of blacks and browns – the perfect colours to pair other items with this winter. Their items are also not just the boring old black T-shirt or a simple skirt.  No, they come with all kinds of textures and details, which means you can even wear them as it comes. Consider investing in a black skirt like The Romantic Collective’s Macchiato Pleated Skirt, and opt for a coat like their Hot Cocoa Teddy Coat this winter. Of course, having a white and black T-shirt or top in your closet is always a great help, as well as a grey hoodie and perhaps some black leggings. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Current trends indicate that wildly colourful outfits and ‘somewhere over the rainbow’ fashion is the way to go this winter. Opt for one or two bright and beautiful items to give your winter wardrobe a dopamine kick. Found Collection has a lovely rainbow wrap skirt which might just be the item you are looking for to add some colour to your life this season. Colours like fuchsia, lilac, emerald and electric blue are also trending, so try to bring them in with a top, shoes, clutch bags or even scarves. As with every other season, a maxi dress is always welcome in a wardrobe.  You can dress it up, dress it down, wear it for summer or couple it with stockings, boots and a sweater or a coat for the colder months. It’s a must-have for any closet. Have a look at MILKANDHONEY’s lovely maxi dresses. They currently even have a beautiful brown one, which is a great neutral colour to have hanging in your cupboard. READ: Barbie Loves Gert collection now offers shoes in collaboration with Europa Art Many women would tell you that the shoes make the outfit. If you’re clever, you’ll have a few staple shoes in your closet, which work with everything for any occasion. Invest in a pair of brown boots, as well as a pair of black boots like the ones from Freequency Footwear (some of their boots are currently on sale with up to a 50% discount).  White sneakers are a must-have and then, be sure to have a neutral heel which can be worn with either formal wear or jeans, like black suede heels from Witchery. Having a suit in your closet is another must-have wardrobe item for winter. It can easily be dressed up with those neutral heels or dress it down with your white sneakers and a T-shirt with some fun graphics on it. Whether it’s real leather or pleather, you need something of the kind in your wardrobe this winter.  Highly fashionable and wonderfully warm, it will undoubtedly be one of your go-to items this season. A leather jacket (like the Ashanti leather jacket from Poetry) is something you will never be sorry you bought.  It works for almost any occasion and can look down to earth and simple just as easily as it could look elegant and bold. Pair it with a grey hoodie for a laid-back look or couple it with jeans and a shiny top for a night out in town. Leather pants are also a great go-to for winter and make any outfit look thought through in an instant. Many might argue that you need a lot more than these when it comes to staples for your winter wardrobe, but with these, you certainly have a good head start.