All eyes have been on musician, television presenter and actor Anga Makhubalo, popularly known as Naak MusiQ since his victory over Cassper Nyovest at the weekend.For months, the pair had been building up anticipation for their fight, often engaging in some social media banter to make their rivalry seem real.They also shared footage from their training sessions in the lead up to the fight, much to the amusement of social media users.It all came to a head this past weekend when their pair partook in what can only be called the biggest celebrity fight in South Africa at the Sun City Superbowl.In the days following the match, Nyovest and Naak MusiQ have been hailed for delivering a stellar show in a production “powered” by Vertex Events, Bridge Entertainment and TLB Promotions, in association with Boxing South Africa. The match boasted well-known guests from the likes of Minister of Justice Ronald Lamola, entertainers and media practitioners such as Robert Marawa, Minnie Dlamini, DJ Zinhle, DJs Sphe & Naves and Big Zulu.Influencers such as Mihlali Ndamase and Lasizwe Dambuza were also in attendance.  Broadcasters Robert Marawa and Minnie Dlamini joined social media sensations Robot Boi and Sipho Says to host a pre-tournament show delivering perspectives from a sporting and entertainment perspective.  Bontle Modiselle, Hope Mbhele and Pamela Mtanga were tapped to host the event’s “blue carpet.”  Shortly before the two entertainers fought it out in the ring, legendary band TKZee graced the stage performing a medley of their hits from Shibobo to Phalafala.  Naaq MusiQ caused both a surprise and an upset when he was declared the winner of the match up.   His opponent, Cassper Nyovest, previously won a fight against Youtuber SlikTalk.  “I have so much respect for boxers, the preparation it takes to fight is incredible. There is a lot of pressure, I am used to weightlifting, boxing taught me so much discipline and focus. I am happy I won, I also celebrate Cassper for his vision and tenacity. What he achieved with this event is something really big not just for himself but the boxing industry.” said Naak MusiQ.  “I am so thankful to everyone that came out to support, Celeb City is now bigger than me and a platform for us to push and elevate boxing in South Africa. Congratulations to Naak MusiQ, he showed up and won. We will do it again soon,” added the founder of Celeb City, Cassper Nyovest.  According to organisers, more than 3000 people attended the tournament, which featured five other bouts from  professional boxers, both local and international.“It was indeed a night of the underdogs with Landile Ngxeke beating crowd favorite Athenkosi Dumezweni. In other bouts, Lucky Monyebane outpointed Malawian Romeo Makwakwa while Sikho Nqothole defeated Ricardo Malajika on points.  “On the other hand, former World Boxing Federation (WBF) and SA female bantamweight champion Bukiwe ‘Anaconda’ Nonina had a breeze as she won the vacant African Boxing Union (ABU) female junior-lightweight title with a unanimous decision win over Tanzanian Feriche Mashauri,” organisers said. Simphiwe Konkco, an erstwhile International Boxing Organisation (IBO) and SA titlist, showed that ring rust is just a myth as he defeated Filipino boxer, Ariston Aton, on all scorecards.This was Konkco’s first fight since losing to Thai boxer Chayaphon Moonsri in a World Boxing Council (WBC) minimumweight title contest in October 2019.Compiled by Kaunda Selisho