Popular award-winning electronic house duo Black Motion, consisting of Bongani Mohosana, known as Murdah Bongz and Thabo Smol are not going their separate ways.  The confirmation comes after gossip blogger, Musa Khawula reported on Friday evening that the music group was done and will be no more.  Khawula shared several tweets providing “evidence” of Black Motion’s spilt such as Murdah Bongz now performing as a solo act known as “Morda”.  Fans quickly assumed the “split” was due to Bongz’s relationship with DJ Zinhle as the couple shares a child together.  However, Black Motion released a statement on Saturday confirming Murdah Bongz had changed his artist name to Morda as he prepares for his solo career, but the band has not parted ways.  Black Motion’s agency Spirit Motion responded to the claims by Khawula further stating; “Black Motion still exists and has plans for more years to come.” They also clarified that Smol will also venture into “other business aspects which will be announced once they are solidified.”  “A new album with new sounds and feel is in the making and we will soon announce more projects that Black Motion is working on. “We trust that this dispels any rumours or uncertainties from our fans, industry peers, promoters, brand agencies or any future events we are booked at. “Lastly, we would like [to] say a big Thank You to all our supporters for their endless love.” the statement concluded.  Khawula has become a controversial figure on Twitter, as his account lately has plainly made unfounded accusations about certain celebrities on a regular basis. The caption of his Twitter posts is also becoming increasingly more outlandish.  Khawula was criticised earlier in the week for doxxing beauty content creator Mihlali Ndamase after he posted screenshots of receipts that detailed Mihlali’s personal details, such as her cellphone number and home address which were visible in the picture.  READ NEXT: Controversial gossip blogger criticised for doxxing Mihlali Ndamase