South African rapper Siyabonga ‘Big Zulu’ Nene has recently reflected on his past struggles and his rise to fame in an Instagram post. Taking to social media, Siyabonga shared an old image of himself performing when he was much younger placed beside an image of an old mud house which seems to be the house in which he grew up in. In the caption of the post, Big Zulu reminisced in his home language about his past, and how much of a journey it was for him to get where he is now in his career.  He started the post by saying that when you are poor and unfortunate, you become the laughing stock amongst other people and that the work he and others do in the entertainment industry is full of hate and sins.  “Kunzima la umuntu omnyama uthandwa mayehlupheka abe yinhlekiso. Umsebenzi esiwenzayo ugcwele inzondo nezono,” said Nene. He then went on to say that when you become successful, other people start to hate on you and call you many mean and disrespectful names and that nobody really cares about the people in the entertainment industry. ALSO READ: Clout or concern? Big Zulu dragged after checking on Esther Mahlangu “Ukuphumelela kwakho kukubizela amazondo nenhlamba ubizwe ngawo wonke amagama. Kulomsebenzi esiwenzayo abanandaba nathi banendaba nendaba zethu,” said Nene. The rapper then opened up about his past and mentioned that he knows what it’s like to be hungry and poor, which is why he tries his best to help other less fortunate families who reach out to him because he too needed the assistance and love of other families who were not related to him back in the day to get him to where he is today. “Kunzima inhlupheko ngiya yaz yiko ngihlezi ngisiza imindeni engingayaz edinga usizo, ngoba nam la ngiphuma khona eBergville ngakhuluswa imindeni engayaz kumanje ngila ngikhona ngothando lwabantu engabazi,” said the rapper. Big Zulu ended off his caption by thanking his loyal fans and followers for their continued support and love.  “Nkabi Nation Ngiyabonga kakhulu ngothando nokungeseka noma kunjani Ngiyabonga kakhulu,” said Nene.