Darryn Binder is chomping at the bit to continue his steep MotoGP learning curve at the Spanish Grand Prix at Jerez this weekend. The WithU Yamaha RNF rider has finished all five races he started in his first season in the premier class, with his 10th place at the Grand Prix of Indonesia his best showing. Unlike his first five races of 2022, the 24-year-old Binder will return to a track this weekend on which he has at least had a taste of on a MotoGP bike.  Before signing with the Yamaha satellite team straight from Moto3 last year, he had two days of testing on its machine at Jerez. “Jerez is a track, that I really like,” Binder, who partners the experienced Italian Andrea Dovizioso, told his team’s website. “I also got two days of testing there on the MotoGP bike at the end of last year. Even though, it was my first time riding a MotoGP bike, I get to at least go back there and have more or less of an idea. “I’m really excited to come back to Jerez. We will also have a test there on Monday. So as soon as the weekend is done and I can try and adapt things from whatever I have learned in order to make a step forward.” ALSO READ: Brad Binder vows to bounce back after rare failure Binder is placed second of the three rookie riders in MotoGP this season. Italian Marco Bezzecchi leads the Rookie of the Year category with 8 points, followed by Binder (6) and Australian Remy Gardner (3). Binder’s older brother Brad, who rides for Red Bull KTM, won the Rookie of the Year accolade in his first season in the premier class back in 2020. The WithU Yamaha RNF team is hoping Darryn can emulate his brother in 2022. “Darryn should be competing among the top rookies [in Jerez] and try to maintain or improve on his second place in the rookie category,” said team principal Razlan Razali. “Jerez is traditionally a good circuit for the Yamaha and is another important European track, where everybody is fast.” The Spanish Grand Prix starts at 2pm on Sunday. To see the full MotoGP calendar, click here.