Two men were nabbed by the members of the South African Police Service (Saps) Provincial Tracking Team for possession of illegal cigarettes worth R1.7 million. The two suspects were arrested in the early hours of today, 25 April along the N1 north near Louis Trichardt. According to Saps Lieutenant Colonel Malesela Ledwaba, police received a tip-off regarding a group of men allegedly travelling in several vehicles transporting illicit cigarettes from Zimbabwe to South Africa. Police officials acted upon the Intel and therefore the suspects were intercepted. “The four vehicles were spotted driving in a convoy and police tried to stop them but they sped off,” Colonel said. A car chase between officials and the suspects ensued; however, the suspects later abandoned their vehicles and ran on foot toward the nearby farms. “The four vehicles were searched and about 130 boxes containing illicit cigarettes worth R1.7 million were confiscated,” Lieutenant Ledwaba concluded. Two suspects aged 37 and 45 were nabbed, and are expected to appear before the Makhado magistrate’s court tomorrow, Tuesday 26 April. They’ll be facing charges of dealing in illicit cigarettes and contravention of the illegal immigration Act. ALSO READ: Sahawi cigarettes worth R3.5 million confiscated near Upington This follows an incident of illicit cigarettes and drugs seized by the South African Revenue Service’s (Sars) Customs officers in Phoenix. Law enforcement seized illicit cigarettes and drugs valued at approximately R3.1 million in Durban, KwaZulu-Natal. The bust took place in earlier March at three residences belonging to a well-known cigarette supplier in Phoenix. Sars said during the search, a total of 2.31 million sticks of cigarettes were confiscated. According to Sars, The cigarettes were being sold at such a low value that it was clear no excise duties were being paid. A full audit will now be conducted on the goods. There were also narcotics found at two of the locations, including Mandrax and Cannabis with a street value of approximately R10 000. ALSO READ: R7 for a pack cigarettes? Authorities losing fight against illegal cigarettes