Brandon Truter has brought a different approach with him to AmaZulu where former coach Benni McCarthy is said to have lost the changeroom before he was fired. McCarthy’s strong-arm approach is said to have been his downfall, and openly questioning his players’ quality every time things don’t go well added salt to the wound. That is why the former Swallows mentor has brought a different approach of giving the players the respect they deserve as professionals. READ ALSO: Parker not fazed by his love-hate relationship with Chiefs fans “For me as a coach, I have to get the players to buy into what I am trying to get across,” says Truter. “For the players, I think man-management and the relationship between the players and the coach needs to be there. It is not so much about technical and tactical elements, it’s about man-management. The players are humans and we have to respect one another and each other’s opinions. “For a coach it is about coming in and saying this is what I want and asking the players how they feel about it, giving them responsibility and power is always a good start. “I hope we can continue with that atmosphere and relationship,” says Truter. He will be in charge of his second game at the helm at Usuthu when they play the KwaZulu-Natal DStv Premiership derby against Maritzburg United. The game is set for Moses Mabhida Stadium on Saturday at 3pm. “Maritzburg is a good team,” says Truter. “With the coach they have (Ernst Middendorp), they are tactically very organised and difficult to play against. Looking at their position on the log, they are in danger (of relegation) and it is always difficult to play teams in the bottom who are fighting for their lives. “We experienced that in the game against Baroka… It is going to be a very tough game. But the boys are ready, it is a derby and we are looking to rule KZN. “We still have two more derbies to play after this and I back my boys to win this one. The last three derbies between AmaZulu and Maritzburg ended in draws, and we are looking to break that.”