The South African Weather Service (SAWS) has warned residents in southern Gauteng to expect isolated showers and thundershowers on Friday. The weather is expected to be cloudy and cool in the rest of the province.   Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected over the Central Karoo of the Western Cape on Friday. “Conditions are such that the FDI index is above 75. Under these conditions, fires may develop and spread rapidly, resulting in damage to property and possible loss of human and/or animal life,” warned the weather service.  Mpumalanga: Fine and cool but warm in the Lowveld. It will become partly cloudy on the western Highveld in the evening with isolated showers and thundershowers in the south-west. Limpopo: Fine and warm, becoming partly cloudy in the extreme south-western Bushveld in the evening. It will be cool over the central parts. North West: Partly cloudy and cool with isolated showers and thundershowers, but scattered in the south. Free State: Partly cloudy and cool with scattered showers and thundershowers. Northern Cape: Fine and warm, but hot in places in the south-western parts. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh westerly to south-westerly. Western Cape: Morning drizzle and fog patches along the south-western and south coast, otherwise cloudy and cold to cool. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh north-westerly to westerly reaching strong south of Cape Point from the late morning. The expected UVB sunburn index: High Western half of the Eastern Cape: Fine and cool, becoming cloudy along the coast with evening rain inplaces east of Storms River. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong south-westerly. ALSO READ: Isolated showers and rain expected in parts of KZN on Freedom Day Eastern half of the Eastern Cape: Partly cloudy and cool with isolated showers and thundershowers. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong south-westerly. KwaZulu-Natal: Fine and warm, but cool in the south-western parts. It will become partly cloudy in the afternoon with isolated showers and thundershowers in the south. The wind along the coast will be moderate north-easterly, becoming moderate south-westerly from the south towards evening.