Two men were sentenced to a hefty life imprisonment each for corrective rape at the Atteridgeville Regional Court. According to National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) Regional Spokesperson Lumka Mahanjana the duo were convicted of corrective rape following an incident that took place on 16 December 2020. Getwin Moloto, 30 and Lebohang Makola, 35 from Saulsville on the said evening accosted a 19-year-old lesbian when she was trying to open a gate at her house. The victim had just accompanied her partner. ALSO READ: South Africa’s youngest recorded serial rapist ever handed 30 year prison sentence “The two, including a third accomplice, grabbed her and carried her to a shack where they raped her. While Moloto was raping her, he kept on asking her why she was taking their women.” said Mahanjana In the process of raping her Makola continuously asked the victim to be his girlfriend. After the ordeal the victim asked if she can use the toilet outside and they agreed but only allowed her to only wear pants. When she got to the door, she took the opportunity to run to her home which was only three houses away and told her mom what had happened. “The matter was reported to the police and the victim was taken to the Laudium Thuthuzela Care Centre (TCC) for medical examination.” Mahanjana further explained When the victim and her mother returned home, they found the victim’s underwear which was left at Moloto’s shack in their yard. The victim was able to identify Moloto as she recognised his voice, he then pointed out his co-accused Makola. During the court proceedings, Prosecutor Paulina told the court that the offence was influenced by hatred towards her sexuality.  Paulina further said that Moloto was a neighbour to the victim and was supposed to be someone that protected young women in the community but chose to take advantage of them with his friends. Prosecutor Paulina asked the judge to impose the prescribed minimum sentence. The Director of Public Prosecutions advocate Sibongile Mzinyathi said crimes that are influenced by hatred towards the LGBTQI+ community will not be tolerated and will be prosecuted. Mzinyathi proceeded to thank the work done by the Court Preparation Officer (CPO) Kopano Motshwane who ensured that the victim was fit to testify in court. ALSO READ: Man gets 34 years for raping elderly woman and her granddaughter