The Sharks powered to a thumping 34-3 win over the Lions in a wet weather United Rugby Championship match at Kings Park in Durban on Saturday afternoon. The Sharks won the kicking, forward and gain line battles, while the Lions couldn’t come to grips with the wet weather conditions and didn’t get the rub of the green with a number of 50/50 calls going against them in the game. But the home side will be happy with a dominant display that saw them pick up a crucial bonus point win that solidifies their place in the URC top eight, with them moving ahead of the Bulls and Edinburgh into sixth place. Here are four key talking points from the match: Fast start was telling The Sharks got off to a flying start in the match, tearing into a 14-0 lead after just 12 minutes, with the Lions then playing catch up rugby the rest of the game.  Sharks scrumhalf Jaden Hendrikse, who had a superb match, was at the heart of both tries as he fed a good inside ball to rampaging lock Gerbrandt Grobler to crash over and then it was his vision with a smart chip over the defence that ended with a try to Phepsi Bhutelezi to give the home team the perfect start. Physical performance was key It was a massively physical performance from the home side that set the tone for the match, with them constantly winning the collision battle as players like Phepsi Buthelezi, Werner Kok, Gerbrandt Grobler and Bongi Mbonambi made good metres with powerful runs that had the visitors on the back foot throughout. Buthelezi in particular put in a monstrous showing, scoring a try while bumping off a host of Lions defenders during the game and was in the end a deserved man of the match. Sharks forwards dominate The Sharks forwards put in a huge showing to set the perfect platform for their big win. Their scrum was dominant in the first half, winning a number of penalties, before the Lions managed to put in a better effort as the game wore on.  The Sharks maul however was a different beast as they constantly made metres, while a massive maul drive from a 22m lineout led to a try to hooker Bongi Mbonambi. All four of the Sharks’ tries in the match were scored by forwards, as replacement Sikhumbuzo Notshe got his name on the scoresheet from close range late on. Kicking battle belonged to the Sharks In a wet weather match the kicking battle was always going to be a defining factor and it proved to be as the Sharks completely outplayed the Lions in this facet.  The home side used their tactical kicks to good effect, pinning the visitors in their own half much of the time and making them play from deep, while the Lions tactical kicks were not as effective, with many missing the mark.  Sharks flyhalf Curwin Bosch also enjoyed a solid game, dictating play throughout, while he was on target with all seven of his kicks at goal for a flawless kicking performance. Scorers Sharks: Tries: Gerbrandt Grobler, Phepsi Buthelezi, Bongi Mbonambi, Sikhumbuzo Notshe; Conversions: Curwin Bosch (4); Penalties: Bosch (3) Lions: Try: Henco van Wyk; Conversion: Jordan Hendrikse; Penalty: Hendrikse