With the wraps having come off of the Ferrari 296 GTB last year, the Prancing Horse has now revealed the Spider version that replaces the corresponding drop-top F8. Renamed 296 GTS or Grand Turismo Spider instead of simply Spider, the newcomer is externally unchanged from the Berlinetta coupe, sans the replacing of the carbon fibre roof with a two-piece retractable hard-top. Able to open and close in 14 seconds at speeds up to 45 km/h, the roof retracts underneath the engine cover in a specially designed recess, which Ferrari claims has not impacted cooling or any other mechanical aspect. ALSO READ: PICS: New Ferrari 296 GTB revealed with electrified six-cylinder heart What has been affected though is the weight. Standing four millimetres taller than the GTB at 1 191 mm, the GTS ticks the scales at 1 540 kg, an increase of 70 kg, which has impacted little on performance according to Maranello. Sitting at the rear, the 2.9-litre twin-turbo V6, unrelated to the similar displacement unit Alfa Romeo uses in the Giulia QV and Stelvio Q, produces an unchanged 488 kW, but is combined with a 7.45-kWh battery that powers a 122 kW electric motor, delivers a total of 610kW/740Nm. Hooked to an eight-speed dual-clutch gearbox, the GTS will accelerate from 0-100 km/h in 2.9 seconds and top out at 330 km/h, the same figures as the GTB. The all-electric range is 25 km with 0-200 km/h said to take 7.6 seconds, three tenths slower than the GTB. Fitted with the same four-mode Manettino selector as the GTB, the GTS also boasts the same upgraded brakes, Side Slip Control system and optional Assestto Fiorano package that comprises lightweight interior door panels, Michelin Pilot Sport Cup2R tyres, adjustable Multimatic shock absorbers, carbon fibre interior trim, a carbon front bumper and a special livery inspired by the 250 LM which served as styling inspiration. Set to go on sale later this year, the 296 GTS is likely to arrive in South Africa within the coming weeks, though an official reveal remains unknown.