The newlywed Faith Mapholoso Nketsi, now Njilo shared a long Twitter thread and pictures on Instagram of her surprise wedding that took place on Sunday. In a series of tweets, the new Mrs Njilo expressed her love for her husband, Nzuzo Njilo. She speaks about how she was advised to settle down for a man who truly loved her unconditionally, and shared how she has reciprocated the same level of love. “I can’t believe he is mine forever. Someone once advised me that I should settle down with a man that loves me more than I love him, that the guy that drives you crazy, the guy that excites you and has you acting like a teenager is not the guy that will marry you,” the 27-year-old socialite wrote. Friends and family of the couple celebrated the duo’s ‘mahlabiso’ (traditional wedding)- the bringing together of the two families’ ancestors through a traditional ceremony.  Faith explained they had a short time to prepare for this ceremony, in her Instagram post. “This past weekend our families became one for the sake of our love, so much respect and love was reciprocated from both sides of our families and it had me so emotional and crying the whole weekend,” she said.   Though the reality TV star says she never had faith in the advice she received about dating the right guy, the effort her husband has shown is a display he loves her “no matter what”. The social media influencer expressed how blessed she is to freely love her man. “Well, God knows my heart and he knew that I could never live by that advice. My man has shown me time and time again that he will fight for our love and he loves me no matter what. [With] the consistency in the way he looks at me throughout these years, I should’ve known that we will spend the rest of our lives together… “I always say our love is not your typical love story but I would have never had it any other way. God created me for you and I was created for you. I’m so content knowing that you love me, and I am so blessed to freely love you unconditionally. The man that drives me crazy and gives me butterflies till today is the man I’ll be spending the rest of my life with,” she continued. She says she is ecstatic and looking forward to a future filled with little Njilo’s. “I’m so excited to begin this new chapter with my hubby and build an amazing life for our kids and grandkids. I can’t wait to wake up next to you every morning,” Faith Nketsi concluded. ALSO READ: IN PICS: Denise Zimba and Faith Nketsi’s weddings