The Automobile Association (AA) said the Presidential Protection Unit (PPU) or notorious “blue light brigade” transporting politicians on the country’s roads especially on major highways continue to pose a road safety threat to motorists, and their operation should be reviewed. The government’s VIP protection unit have become notorious for its bullying tactics on South Africa’s roads with a number of incidents reported. One of the more conspicuous incidents of the unit includes the high-speed car crash involving Ekurhuleni mayor Mzwandile Masina. The accident reportedly happened around midnight on 20 August 2020. A BMW 540i, allegedly driven by Masina, hit the back of a truck on the N12 highway in Johannesburg In the Ekurhuleni Metro Police Department’s (EMPD’s) accident report, the truck driver said the BMW was driving at a high speed and swerving across lanes before the collision The AA said it will discuss the behaviour of the blue light brigade with the Ministers of Police and Transport to have a review of the VIP unite instituted urgently. “Blue Light Brigades are, simply put, a threat to other drivers. There is growing anecdotal evidence that PPU drivers are aggressive to other road users, that they speed way above the applicable speed limits, that they swerve dangerously in and out of traffic, and that they disrespect other road users. But the blame is not only theirs; their passengers are as much to blame, if not more so, than they are.” The AA said while Section 58(3) and Regulation 176 of the National Road Traffic Act (NRTA) permits drivers of emergency vehicles such as traffic officers and duly authorised drivers to disregard the directions of a road traffic sign and drivers on the road to give an absolute right of way to a vehicle sounding a device or bell, there is no reason to drive recklessly. The association points out that any driver who drives recklessly or is careless about the safety of other users on the road can be held liable for gross negligence where they pose a threat to property or another person whether they were driving a politician, delegate, VIP, or a car fitted with a blue light, just like any other road user. “Obviously we appreciate that this regulation is intended to deal with emergencies and to give authorities the road space they need to deal with these. But to invoke this legislation to transport VIPs at high speeds, with a total disregard of traffic laws, is not only unacceptable it’s dangerous. Road users should not be bullied off the road or to be forced to give right of way when it is not safe to do so. The law protects the safety of the road user first,” said the AA.” The AA said if politicians and members of the Cabinet speak on road safety, and the need to deal effectively with the carnage on the country’s roads, they must also obey the rules and instruct their drivers to do likewise. ALSO READ: Sanef appalled after false decuplets story shortlisted for global award