Kaizer Chiefs have finally received dates for their rescheduled matches against Golden Arrows as well as Cape Town City.ALSO READ: Irritated Baxter says he will go if Chiefs wants him toChiefs revealed on Tuesday that the Premier Soccer League made contact with them. Amakhosi and the PSL were at loggerheads for quite some time after Amakhosi were hit by Covid-19, which forced them to write to the PSL telling the league that they can’t attend games due to the pandemic that hit players and staff in Naturena last year. “The away match against Lamontville Golden Arrows, which was originally scheduled for 8 December 2021 will now be played in Durban on Freedom Day, 27 April 2022. The other match – against Cape Town City, postponed from 4 December 2021 – will now take place on 30 April 2022 at FNB Stadium,” read the Chiefs statement on their website. “Chiefs wrote to the League on 1 December last year to alert them of the disastrous situation that had befallen the Club, requesting that the matches be postponed in an effort to protect the lives of everyone involved, including opponents. The plea was rejected even though the law of the country required that Chiefs players and staff go into isolation and quarantine under such circumstances.” “The League decided to charge Amakhosi for not honouring the fixtures. The Club took the matter to Arbitration under SAFA. Mr. Zola Majavu, who is the PSL prosecutor affirmed that the League would recognise the ruling as final and binding and not appealable – which is in line with the NSL/PSL and SAFA rules.” “The Arbitrator, Advocate Nazeer Cassim SC, ruled that the games should be rescheduled and ordered Chiefs to cover the travel costs of the other Clubs, a decision that was welcomed by all at the Kaizer Chiefs Village.” But, it doesn’t seem like the legal battle is over, with the club confirming that the PSL has decided to take the arbitration ruling by Advocate Cassim on review. The matter will be heard on 10 May 2022. “Consequently, if the League is successful in the review application at High Court, then the log will be adjusted to reflect the position as if the replayed matches had not been replayed. If Kaizer Chiefs is successful in the review proceedings, then the log will reflect the outcome of the rescheduled matches.”