A man with suspected links to the notorious Boko Haram gang in Mamelodi, Tshwane, has been arrested. Police arrested the suspect after gathering intelligence on the movements of the 38-year-old man. The man, from Silverton, is suspected to be linked to three business robbery cases in Mamelodi. One of the cases is from January 2020 and two occurred in November 2021. The arrest took place on Tuesday. The Boko Haram gang is alleged to have been involved in robberies, extortion, intimidation and other serious and violent crimes in Mamelodi and surrounding areas.  “I commend the team that worked together to ensure that those who terrorise the community are hunted down and brought to book. This arrest will help us to close gang related cases that were committed in Mamelodi in the past years,” said Lieutenant General Elias Mawela. The suspect will appear at the Mamelodi Magistrate’s Court on Monday. The arrest comes after another suspected Boko Haram gang member was apprehended in Pretoria in December. The 31-year-old was also suspected to be involved in business robberies in Mamelodi, including a chain store robbery where an undisclosed amount of cash and groceries were taken. ALSO READ: Suspected Boko Haram gang member arrested in Mamelodi The arrests follow the killing of another Boko Haram member in October. The man was killed in a hail of bullets during a shooting incident on the N4 Highway near Diamond Hill Toll Plaza. His girlfriend was injured during the shooting. ALSO READ: Mamelodi’s Boko Haram gang member killed in hail of bullets According to Brigadier Brenda Muridili, the police arrived at the scene and were told by a witness that a black VW Polo was shot at by occupants of a silver-grey Mercedes Benz. The driver of the Polo lost control of the vehicle, which came to a stop not far from the road. “Preliminary investigations on the scene identified the deceased as 35-year-old Phillip Given Mnguni. The Task Team established to investigate gang activities in Mamelodi had already linked him to several cases linked to the Boko Haram,” said Muridili.