Kwazulu-Natal’s beaches are stretched out along 600km of coastline, some of which match the best in the world.  Following the recent floods, tons of debris have been dumped on the beaches – a rather sore sight for both locals and visitors to see. With all-year warm waters, the province normally has visitors from across the country right through the year – a huge boost for their economy.  Therefore, it is a priority to get the beaches cleaned up and to get things up and running again as soon as possible. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The KZN Sharks Board in partnership with various stakeholders, including EDTEA, Tourism Kwazulu-Natal (TKZN), WESSA, DSW, ISPHEPHO Enviro Ambassadors and others took to an initiative to conduct a major beach clean-up yesterday at Dakota Beach, Isipingo. Sthembiso Madlala, the Board Chairperson of Tourism KZN, said: “KZN is much loved by holidaymakers for its coastlines that can match the very best in the world. To see the devastation and the debris caused by the recent floods is damaging to the destination brand. It is therefore critical for communities to rally with us in these clean ups, to get the beaches back to their former pristine state. It is heart-warming to see people who have come out to lend a hand. This is a true testimony of the warmth of the people of KZN that it is indeed why the province keeps rising back up after each adversity. This is what makes KZN such a special place to visit.” The initiative came about as one of the recovery initiatives for the KZN province after the past few weeks’ major floods, which have affected many communities in the province and more especially in the eThekwini region.  Keeping in mind that this specific area plays an integral part in the beach tourism of Kwazulu-Natal, it was only natural for the partnership to be formed to assist in cleaning up the beaches. The KZN Sharks Board, which is mainly responsible for bather protection in the province, launched its beach clean-up campaigns in 2014 already, with the main purpose being to assist and participate in the general upkeep and cleanliness of the province’s beaches.  It is also part of the conservatory efforts to save and preserve the lives of sea creatures and to encourage the usage of the beaches in order to grow beach tourism in Kwazulu-Natal. READ: KZN floods: National State of Disaster to last for three months, with possible extension – Dlamini-Zuma The board is currently working with various NGO’s, NPO’s, church groups.  It has been identified as a donation centre whereby donations can be delivered or dropped off at their headquarters in Umhlanga and their shareholder, EDTEA will ensure that all donations are delivered to the effected communities and flood victims that are in need during these trying times. Donations can be dropped off here: No. 1 A Herrwood Drive Umhlanga Governmental departments, sister entities, businesses and the public are invited to donate essential goods like unperishable foods, blankets, sanitary items, baby food and clothing. For more information about beach clean-ups and donations, contact the Sharks Board on 031 566 0400.