Who doesn’t want a state-of-the-art kitchen? After all, the kitchen is the heart of the home. That’s why people are often more than willing to take out loans to remodel their kitchens. According to DirectAxis, home improvements are amongst the leading reasons people take out loans. Ensuring that you get the best value, and the finished kitchen meets your expectations is therefore of utmost importance. It’s a good idea to know what you’re in for when it comes to committing or applying for a loan to remodel your kitchen.  Nozizwe Fakude, DirectAxis’ head of consumer rights says that means being realistic and aligning your preferences with what you can afford. Here are some tips for remodeling your kitchen without too much drama: This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Fakude says you need to consider your kitchen needs first, rather than fancy finishes or the latest trends.  “For example, if you love cooking, have a large family and do your own housework you may need a spacious, practical, easy-to-clean kitchen rather than a top-of-the-range, flashy show-kitchen that shows every speck of dirt.” READ: How to give your home a makeover on a budget According to the Kitchen Specialists’ Association (KSA), a non-profit organisation that represents 274 reputable kitchen manufacturers and suppliers, a major source of conflict between customers and kitchen companies come in when the client’s tastes and budget do not align. “Many consumers pick photos from magazines or Pinterest and tell the kitchen designer that’s their dream kitchen. But the reality is that some budgets do not lend themselves to certain trends or finishes and inevitably this can lead to compromises and disappointment,” says Stephanie Forbes, national coordinator for the KSA. She suggests that you write a brief before your visit a kitchen company, which will focus your mind and save time by giving the designer an understanding of what you want. The brief should include your budget and explain why you are undertaking the renovation and what the goal is.  Are you planning a cost-effective facelift, or do you want to completely redo a 20-year-old kitchen?  What type of food do you like to cook? Do you entertain a lot? How does the kitchen feature in family life? Once you get to the point of remodeling, here are some tips for a hassle-free project: “Kitchens are complex because they involve multiple stages and various tradespeople need to be involved,” says Fakude. Could it be that applying for a loan is the easiest step in the kitchen remodeling process?