Introduced at the same time four years ago as sister brand Hyundai’s Palisade, Kia has followed the same route once again by showcasing the updated Telluride alongside its refreshed sibling at the New York International Auto Show. The biggest Kia SUV currently sold outside South Korea where the diesel-engine only Mohave is offered, the Cadillac Escalade-styled Telluride rides on the same platform as the Palisade and boasts the same powertrain; the normally aspirated 3.8-litre V6 that fires 217kW/355Nm to the front or all four wheels through an eight-speed automatic gearbox. In the same mould as the Palisade, the Telluride’s exterior tweaks are subtle, but a touch harder to spot. Centre to the revisions is redesigned front and rear bumpers, vertical headlights with standard LEDs, new cladding at the base of the doors and an updated grille. Along with new LED taillight clusters and alloy wheel designs, the remainder of the changes involves three new colours; Dawning Red, Midnight Lake Blue and Jungle Wood Green. ALSO READ: Refreshed Hyundai Palisade shows itself Inside, the 12.3-inch digital instrument cluster remains untouched, but as with the Palisade, the 10.25-inch touchscreen infotainment system increases to 12.3-inches while retaining Apple CarPlay, Android Auto and integrated satellite navigation. In addition to a new steering wheel, revised dashboard and air vents, wireless smartphone charger and a trim level-dependent electric tailgate, the Heads-Up Display now measures ten instead of 8.3-inches, while six USB ports are again scattered around the interior. A ten-speaker Harman Kardon sound system and new colours, as well as an assortment of veneers, round the interior of. On the safety front, the already extensive array of systems includes seven new additions, namely adaptive Smart Cruise Control, Forward Collision-Avoidance with Intersection Detection and Crossing, Evasive Steering Assist, Lane Change Side Assist, Highway Driving Assist and Speed Limit Detection. As before, an automatic-levelling rear suspension is standard with Downhill Brake Control being a new addition. The drive mode selector again comprises four settings; Eco, Comfort, Smart and Sport with all-wheel-drive models gaining a Snow and AWD Lock setting. Set to go on sale later year, the Telluride will remain a US market only model despite calls, most notably from Australia, to offer it with right-hand drive. “The retooling for right-hand-drive won’t be that substantial and it would be a great test for us of local consumers’ appetite for the brand at that price point. While we would be keen to take a punt at it, maybe with next generation but for now, no,” Kia South Africa CEO, Gary Scott, told The Citizen on the side-lines of the Seltos launch in Cape Town two years ago.