The ongoing conflict involving Russia and Ukraine – with Russian President Vladimir Putin launching a full-scale invasion on 24 February – stems back to the 1950s with the transfer of Crimea.  The invasion of Ukraine – said to be the largest military attack in Europe since World War II – is an escalation of the 2014 Russo-Ukrainian war, when the Ukrainian Revolution of Dignity (Maidan Revolution) ousted then-President Viktor Yanukovych. Now in 2022, President Vladimir Putin questioned Ukraine’s right to statehood and accused the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (Nato) of threatening Russia’s security.  Russia has launched a major offensive into eastern Ukraine, authorities in Kyiv said, opening a new phase of its invasion after being thwarted in efforts to capture the capital. The United States is due to hold a video meeting with allies Tuesday to discuss the conflict in Ukraine, where Moscow’s military campaign has refocused on the eastern region of Donbas, partly controlled by pro-Kremlin separatists since 2014. “We can now confirm that Russian troops have begun the battle for the Donbas, which they have been preparing for a long time,” Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said on Telegram late Monday. “No matter how many Russian soldiers are brought here, we will fight. We will defend ourselves.” The live blog may take a few seconds to load. Refresh the page if the space below remains blank. Some of the images shared below contain graphic content.  Shelling claimed two lives in northeast Kharkiv on Sunday morning, regional governor Oleg Synegubov said, the day after 10 civilians, including a child, died in bombings southeast of the city. “The Russian army continues to wage war on civilians due to a lack of victories at the front,” Synegubov said on Telegram. In Dnipro, an industrial city of around a million inhabitants, a rain of Russian missiles nearly destroyed the local airport, causing an uncertain number of casualties, local authorities said.  The transfer from the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (SFSR) to the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic (SSR), at the time described as a symbolic gesture, led to the re-establishment of Crimean autonomy in the early 1990s.  Then in 2014, the focus was once again on Crimea and parts of Donbas during the Ukrainian Revolution of Dignity, resulting in the regions being internationally recognised as part of Ukraine.  At the time, the Euromaidan protests resulted in the removal of President Viktor Yanukovych on 22 February 2014.  In response, Russian soldiers surrounded and seized control of Crimea, defying the referendum of 1991. Uprisings in Donbas turned into a full-blown war to control Donetsk and Luhansk.  A stalemate eventually ensued after repeated failed attempts at a cease fire.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. After marathon talks between US and Chinese officials, Washington also expressed concern about “alignment” between Russia and China. The discussions come after reports Moscow is seeking military and economic support from Beijing. While declining to address the reports directly, China accused Washington of spreading “disinformation” about its role in the conflict. NOW READ: Ukraine says Russians stole lethal substances from Chernobyl