The ‘Forgotten Nation Over 35 years’ march will be taking place on Wednesday, 6 April, in the City of Tshwane, affecting several intersections and streets. Temporary road closures are expected.  Tshwane Metro Police urged motorists to avoid the intersections and streets along which the march will take place. The group will march against the exclusion of 35 years, and older age group for the job opportunities in government and private sector. The marchers will gather at the open space in Madiba Street and Kgosi Mampuru Street at 9am, from where they will make their way to the Department of Employment and Labour in Francis Baard Street. ALSO READ: ActionSA guns for Malema, JSC interviews and petrol price hike The following intersections and streets will be affected by the march: Tshwane Metro has advised motorists to avoid the above-mentioned streets and use alternative routes along Nana Sita Street, Struben Street, Thabo Sehume Street, Lilian Ngoyi Street and Sisulu Street. The protesters are expected to disperse from the Department of Employment and Labour at 12pm.  Tshwane Metro Police officers will monitor the march and all affected streets. JMPD spokesperson, Xolanie Fihla told The Citizen on Wednesday morning there is protest action in City Deep in Johannesburg, near the Johannesburg fresh produce market.  Heidelberg Road has been closed off to traffic between Impex Avenue and Mpumulelo road. Fihla says the reason for the protest action is not yet known, but it is suspected residents are protesting due to a power outage in the area.  Officers have been deployed to monitor the area, but motorists should expect delays and are advised to exercise extreme caution.  Avoid Heidelberg Road, if possible, and use Vickers Road and the M2 as alternative routes instead. eNCA also reported a total shutdown expected to take place in Diepsloot on Wednesday morning.  Fihla told The Citizen police will remain on high alert following protest action by residents of Diepsloot, who yesterday handed over a memorandum at the Diepsloot SAPS.  The protesters are demanding the deployment of SAPS, SARS and Home Affairs and the addition of more visible policing in the area.  This comes after seven people were shot dead and 14 others sustained serious injuries on Saturday, 2 April.  Several roads in Diepsloot were barricaded overnight with burning tires and rocks; protesters have since dispersed and officers cleared the roads. At the time of publishing, the situation is quiet, but the JMPD says they are expecting more demonstrations and protests.  Fihla says officers have been deployed in the area and they will keep on monitoring the situation and act on any disruptions and disturbances.