Pete Davidson and Kim Kardashian have been official for just a couple of months but they are already taking their relationship very seriously with their families now being more involved.  The comedian and media personality mogul met on the set of Saturday Night Live and have been dating since October 2021.  Pete and Kim have had to deal with the drama of the reality star’s ex-husband Kanye ‘Ye’ West who has harassed and abused them on social media.  Ye has publicly stated his disapproval of their relationship, taunting Pete and depicting his “death” in a play dough music video for Eazy. The couple has tried to put this drama behind them. Pete is serious about Kim, getting a couple of tattoos in her honour and now he has introduced her to his grandparents.  A source close to Kim said the couple wants to “take their relationship to the next level”, US Weekly reported.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Kim reportedly met Pete’s grandmother and grandfather during a recent trip to New York and the comedian was “overjoyed” to introduce them to his girlfriend. The report further claimed another “family” member of the Kardashian, Scott Disick, Kourtney Kardashian’s ex-boyfriend and father of their three children has approved of the relationship after seeing how happy Pete made Kim. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Kourtney Kardashian and Travis Barker wed in Vegas amid pregnancy rumours Pete has met most if not all of the Kardashian family.  Speaking to Entertainment Tonight Kim gushed over Pete, adding she was very happy and feels at peace with the relationship.  During the interview, she was asked ‘How serious is it?’ Kim replied, “I am a relationship kind of girl, for sure, and I wouldn’t be with someone if I didn’t plan on spending a lot of my time with them.” She added that it’s “such a good feeling just to be at peace.” It has been over a year since Kim filed for divorce from Kanye and the court finally finalised it in March this year, legally characterising them single.  Complied by Sandisiwe Mbhele