The wedding boom continues for local celebrities and this time media personalities Denise Zimba and Faith Nkesti took their turns to tie the knot this past weekend.  Denise, a TV presenter, actress and artist walked down the aisle at the picturesque venue Blaauwklippen Vineyards in the Stellenbosch Winelands on Saturday.  Posting on her big day, she wrote: “Today is my Wedding Day … it’s finally here! I have been seeing a flood of my family and friends coming in from around the world, and I can’t express enough how excited I am. I’m so grateful. A big thank you to everyone!” Denise Zimba has shared her time in Germany and South Africa over the past year where she went to live with her partner, known as “James Dean.” Denise and James have a child together – a daughter named Leah Lilli-Rose Schlichtig.  Her wedding guest list was star-studded with celebrities such as Cindy Nell, Sihle Ndaba, Lorna Maskeo and Chef Zola Nene all in attendance.  Denise walked down the aisle with her father and her daughter wearing a sheer ruffle white dress and for her reception, she went for a short glittery dress. Faith Nkesti known as South Africa’s sex symbol surprised everyone when she tied the knot over the weekend.  The reality star, model and businesswoman faced a bit of drama last year after rumours that she cheated on her fianceé.  She denied the rumours and all seems to be well as the couple recently held their traditional wedding.  Her husband, Nzuzo Njilo infamously gifted her a Range Rover and is the son of former Umgungundlovu (Pietermartizburg) mayor Themba Njilo.  There was also talk surrounding why Faith kept her nuptials “a secret.”  Many came to the defence of the Have Faith reality star, arguing she didn’t have to announce it to anyone.  Nketsi wore a ‘JoZEEst Accessories by Zee’ headpiece and a gorgeous traditional dress by Otsile Sefolo.  Denise Zimba and Faith Nketsi join the latest string of recent local brides on a list that includes the like of Keitumetse ‘K Naomi’ Phakhati and Tamaryn Nxumalo (formerly Green).