Fan favourite and award-winning actor Zolisa Xaluva is reportedly departing from one of the most popular telenovelas on air right now, Gomora.  This past weekend Sunday Worldreported that the seasoned actor who has appeared on Generations and Kings of Joburg isn’t on the same page with Gomora producers and is looking for other opportunities.  Xaluva plays the role of high school principal Melusi Dlamini. However, his current storyline is centred around the love triangle he is in with high school sweetheart Thati (Katlego Danke). Both characters are married, Melusi’s wife is Gladys played by Thembi Seete whilst Thati’s husband Phumlani is played by Buyile Mdladla.   Xaluva’s character is in quite a predicament after he called the police on himself for supposedly murdering Thati’s husband after he held her captive in their home. Thati and Phumlani’s marriage hasn’t been smooth sailing as the two have been at loggerheads ever since their glamorous all-black wedding that aired in March.  Melusi is struggling to come to terms with Thati’s love for Phumlani. His storyline over the last two months has been a whirlwind for viewers to watch. From watching him recover from injuries sustained during an apparent attack to gatecrashing Thati’s wedding only to give his blessing over their union, viewers have been taken on a journey.  They have also had to watch him maintain his affair with his high school sweetheart through it all and his actions have left viewers divided.  The Sunday World cited two sources who alleged that Xaluva’s upfront approach to addressing issues on the show has rubbed people off the wrong way.  The one source claimed Gomora producers have attempted to remove Xaluva however MultiChoice has “refused to let him go”.  *update: This story has been updated to include Multichoice’s comment sent to The Citizen: Shirley Adonisi, director of M-Net local entertainment channel said: “Telenovelas are designed to carry different key story arcs and these evolve seasonally, it, therefore, goes without saying that characters come and go. Gomora Season 2 was based on a love triangle built around  Melusi, Thati and Gladys characters.  Season 3 culminated with  Melusi losing Thati to another man and divorcing  Gladys. In Season 3 the major story plot is centred around  Sonto’s devastation as she is forced to watch Thati becoming the worst version of herself. Season 3 promises to be riveting as viewers have to expect with Mzansi Magic productions. “Mzansi Magic would like to extend our sincere gratitude to Zoliswa Xaluva for his contribution to the success of Gomora Season 1 and 2 by bringing the Melusi character to life. We are also in awe of Buyile Mdladla’s sterling performance as Phumlani in season 2. We look forward to working with both Zoliswa and Buyile in the future.     No man bored me like Melusi yesses. Hate that man  #GomoraMzanzi #Gomora— Kaizer Chiefs forever ????✌????❤️ (@tintswalomegacy) April 20, 2022