Defeating fierce rivals the Titans for the second time in five days, the Lions were delighted to show their big match temperament once again by sealing the CSA One Day Cup title in a thrilling final at SuperSport Park on Wednesday. The Titans had been the dominant team in all three formats this season. After finishing as runners-up in the T20 competition, they then pipped the Lions to the four-day title by beating them in both teams’ final game, before going into the one-day final as favourites having topped the log. The Lions, however, were the only team to have beaten the Titans in the pool phase, edging a low-scoring game at the Wanderers last week, and thus went into the final with confidence. Reeza Hendricks was the star of the show for the Lions, hammering a superb 157 runs off 135 balls to help them chase down the Titans’ massive total of 318. ALSO READ: Reeza Hendricks blasts Lions to One Day Cup title Hendricks managed to hit form at the perfect moment for his team, as he had scored just 110 runs in his previous six innings in the competition. “It definitely is a special day, not only to contribute in the final for the team, but it is my son’s first birthday so my knock is dedicated to him,” Hendricks said. “Our bowling unit had a really good campaign and they had pulled us through in previous games, so it was nice to finally contribute and get over the line as a batting unit in the final. “It was important with a high-scoring game to walk out there with intent, looking at areas to score, and fortunately it came off for me.” Chasing 319 runs to win, the Lions were able to secure victory with five balls to spare in the trophy decider, with Bjorn Fortuin hitting a six to win the match. “What a game of cricket. It had a bit of everything, heart in mouth stuff for most of it, but we managed to pull it through and what a great knock from Reeza,” said Lions captain Dominic Hendricks. “And if there is any guy who you want to put in a performance under pressure it’s always Bjorn Fortuin.”