With double Olympic medallist Tatjana Schoenmaker and Olympic finalist Kaylene Corbett leading the charge in a golden era for the women’s breaststroke, South Africa’s depth in the technical stroke has gained further strength following the emergence of teenager Lara van Niekerk. Though she had already showcased her talent in recent years, 18-year-old Van Niekerk rocketed up the domestic and international ranks last week by leaving her more experienced compatriots in her wake at the SA Swimming Championships in Gqeberha. We take a closer look at the country’s latest swimming sensation. Record setter Van Niekerk’s record-breaking exploits did not begin last week. In 2021, she broke the African short-course 50m breaststroke record, touching the wall in 29.85 at the SA Short-Course Championships in Pietermaritzburg, and she went on to set a new long-course continental 50m mark of 29.88 at the Northern Tigers Championships in Pretoria in December. In Gqeberha, she broke her own long-course record, stopping the clock at 29.72. Stunning upsets Van Niekerk’s 50m and 100m gold medals in Gqeberha were made even more impressive by the quality of the opposition she beat. In the 50m final, she clocked 30.60 to finish 0.27 ahead of 200m breaststroke world record holder Schoenmaker. In the 100m final, Van Niekerk again beat Schoenmaker (this time by 0.39), setting a personal best of 1:05.67. “I was really nervous before, just knowing she (Schoenmaker) is an Olympic silver medallist in the 100m and she’s always very strong coming back. I always go out fast, so I knew coming back I had to go into another gear and just try my best and keep holding on, so I’m really happy.” – Van Niekerk after the 100m final at the national championships. World class The first South African woman to break 30 seconds in the 50m breaststroke, Van Niekerk’s latest national record saw her soaring up the all-time world rankings. Her time of 29.72 is just 0.42 outside the world record held by Italian swimmer Benedetta Pilato, and only five women have ever gone quicker than the South African prodigy. Chasing medals Already a proven championship performer, Van Niekerk bagged five medals (including four gold) at the 2017 African Junior Championships in Cairo, at the age of 13, and the following year she secured four golds at the African Championships in Algiers, competing against senior opposition. Her performances last week have now seen her qualify for this year’s Fina World Championships, as well as the Commonwealth Games, and she will be eager to prove she can compete at the highest level.