It looks all systems go on Saturday for the running of the rescheduled Grade 1 HSH Princess Charlene Empress Club Stakes for fillies and mares over 1,600m. The meeting was initially scheduled for last week but a decision was made to postpone it to this week after the huge amount of rain that had already fallen and the fact that more wet weather was forecast. Personally, I think it was a brilliant decision and with the weather playing ball, the track should be great, and we should have an outstanding day’s racing. The race has had a stakes’ boost and now carries prize money of R1.25 million. We must thank the sponsor, HSH Princess Charlene of Monaco, for her continued support in the game as a sponsor and as an owner. Racing for these stakes is where we want to be and without the sponsors it wouldn’t be possible. We are also in the process of gearing up to Champions Day next week and all the horses entered to run there will be doing their final pieces of main work over the next couple of days. It’s definitely the pinnacle of the Joburg season and I cannot wait for that meeting to take place. I must say it’s also great to see raiders coming up for the big races and there are some high-class horses we get to see. After taking my one-week suspension, it was unfortunate that I also missed quite a lot of Joburg and KZN racing due to the unprecedented amount of rain, so I’ve been back for two meetings and I’m happy I got a winner on the board. Racing today takes place on the Standside track at Turffontein. Race 1 is a Maiden Juvenile Plate over 1100m and I ride Vasilikos who is a very nice horse and has been gelded. I am expecting a better effort and I think he will be in the finish. Of the raced horses my danger and the horse to beat is Mercantour. He ran a lovely race on debut and with natural improvement he can definitely win this. Lebanese Pound comes back off a break but must be respected while betting support on the unraced runners must be used as a guide to their chances. Race 2 is a Maiden Juvenile Plate for fillies over 1100m and I ride Light Of Day who is a very well-bred unraced horse. She shows us good ability, but she will improve with the run under her belt. The betting support on the unraced horses could be the best guide because the raced horses might have to improve a lot more to feature. But expect improvement from Trentino and include her in all bets. Race 3 is a Maiden Juvenile Plate over 1400m and I ride Eye Of The Prophet who I make the horse to beat and is my value bet on the card. He ran a cracker last time after been slightly keen early on and I’m expecting him to have learned from that and be a hard horse to beat. My main danger is Climate Control who ran a lovely race on debut against older horses but I’m not sure how strong that race was. But he must be respected. Good Council is another who can improve to feature. Race 4 is a Maiden Plate for fillies and mares over 1600m and I ride Twice A Miracle who is as consistent as ever and I’m expecting another very honest run. She is the horse to beat because of race fitness on her side but I do make it a race in two and my main danger is Quest From Afar. She has been disappointing, but she clearly has ability and if close to peak fitness will be the filly to beat. These two horses should get you through all bets. Race 5 is a Maiden Plate over 1600m and it is fairly open and a number of these have winning claims. But I like the way Porfirio is coming along. This will be his third career run, he is drawn well and will enjoy the step-up in trip, so he is probably the horse to beat. Jaipur Jewel ran a much better race last time and rates the main danger while Mcebisi and Blonde Act are others to consider. Race 6 is a Pinnacle Stakes over 1800m and my best bet on the card comes up in the form of Paisley Park. This is a high-class horse who should be at peak fitness now. He is going over a trip I believe he will love, and he will take all the beating. I think he could be a banker in all bets. Golden Pheasant and Expressfromtheus are the main dangers for wider bets. Race 7 is the Listed Spook Express Stakes for fillies and mares over 2400m and I ride She’s A Cracker who comes off a small rest but is doing very well and another bold run is expected in a wide-open affair. Quiet Rebellion is the main danger and will be right there. Smoking Hot and Opera Glass are others who have to be respected and included into all bets. Race 8 is the headliner on the card, the Grade 1 HSH Empress Club Stakes over 1600m, and what a race this promises to be. I think Zarina is the filly they all have to beat because she has had the run up in Joburg. It was impressive and she was unlucky to lose. Off a great draw she just sets the standard. Princess Calla is having her first start on the Highveld but she is all class and is the main danger. She’s A Keeper is another high-class filly and must be included into all bets while three-year-olds Sprinkles and Under Your Spell all definitely are in with a chance. Race 9 is a Classified Stakes over 1400m and I ride Tiger In The Sun who I make one of the horses to beat. He will enjoy going up to 1400m again and I think he will fight out the finish. JP Two Thousand goes for a hat-trick of wins and must be included into all bets. Quattro Passi and Follow My Path are others to consider and include. Race 10 is a Novice Handicap over 1160m and I ride Eyes On Tiger who will need to improve to feature. This is another wide-open race but I think the horse to beat is Permesso Avanti. She is a filly who has to give weight all round but she is well above average and could win. Vegas Hi Rise, Picture Perfect and Twice As Splendid are the immediate dangers and all of them have winning chances. BEST BET Race 6 No 4 Paisley Park VALUE BET Race 3 No 3 Eye Of The Prophet PICK 6 R1440 Leg 1: 1, 5 Leg 2: 1, 2, 3, 8 Leg 3: 4 Leg 4: 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 9 Leg 5: 1, 2, 3, 11, 12 Leg 6: 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 10