For Gauteng motorsport enthusiasts, all roads should lead to the Zwartkops Raceway near Pretoria this Saturday. The reason will be round two of the 2022 Extreme Festival, that will bring eight racing disciplines on four and two wheels to the venue. Topping the programme will be two races for Global Touring Cars. Championship leader Robert Wolk (Chemical Logistics Toyota Corolla) will face off against Julian van der Watt (Autozone Ford Focus), works Volkswagen Golf GTI drivers Daniel Rowe and Jonathan Mogotsi, Toyota Gazoo Racing Corolla entrants Michael van Rooyen, Saood Variawa and Mandla Mdakane, plus Andrew Rackstraw (RDSA Audi S3) and Bradley Liebenberg (Hype Energy Volkswagen Golf GTI). Fighting for superiority in the SupaCup class should be Jeffrey Kruger (Universal SupaPolo), Keagan Masters (Motul SupaPolo), Leyton Fourie (Express Hire SupaPolo), Jason Campos (Turn 1 SupaPolo), Danie van Niekerk (Car Care Clinic SupaPolo) and Arnold Neveling (Stradale SupaPolo). Jonathan du Toit (TAR Lamborghini Huracan) should be the men to beat in the races for G&H Transport Supercars, challenged by people like Dayne Angel (Autohaus Porsche 911 GT2 R), Franco Scribante (Porsche 911), Ben Morgenrood (Morgenrood Lexus IS-F), Gianni Giannoccarro (Nissan GT-R), Charl Arangies (Stradale Audi R8) and Greg Parton (Drizit Lamborghini Huracan). Victory favourites in the CompCare Polo Cup races should include Jurie Swart (Bullion Polo), Giordano Lupini (Bullion Polo), Tate Bishop (ANGRi Polo), Charl Visser (Universal Polo), Dawie van der Merwe (VW Polo),  Clinton Bezuidenhout (Stu Dabidson Polo), Nathi Msimanga (Aseda Polo), and Kwanda Mokoena (Stradale Polo). The Investchem Formula 1600 races should see brothers Anthwan and Gerard Geldenhuys, both in Abacus Mygales, fighting with Josh le Roux (Investchem Mygale), Nicolas van Weely (Magnificent Paints Van Diemen), Jarrod Wabersji (DAW Mygale) and Andrew Schofield (Safair Mygale). The day’s largest entry of 30 competitors will belong to the SunBet Kawasaki ZX10 Masters Cup brigade, with defending champion Graeme van Breda (Stefanutti Stocks ZX10), taking on the likes of Trevor Westman (Wayward ZX10), Rob Cragg (Matrix ZX10), Ronald Slamet (Vault ZX10), David Enticott (Sarim ZX10)m Jayson Lamb (Tyremart ZX10) and Klint Munton (SunScan ZX10). The DOE Formula Vee races should see drivers like Gert van den Berg (DOE Rhema), Greg Wilson (Rhema), Lushen Ramchander (Liqui Moly Forza), Lendl Jansen (Bull Security Rhema) and Brandon Hills (Mangaza Rhema) at the front end. Mackie Adlem (Adlem Auto Jaguar XK8), Franco di Matteo (Lauda Jaguar XK8), Terry Wilford (Fuchs Ford Falcon), David Coetzee (Elksa Ford Falcon), Steve Herbst (Prei Chevrolet Corvette) Julian Familiaris (Lube-Net Chevrolet Corvette) and Warren Lombard (Pepboys Ford Falcon) should fight for front places in the Mobil 1 V8 Supercar races. The Toyota Gazoo Yaris Media Challenge will continue, with Ashley Oldfield, Thomas Falkiner, The Citizen‘s Mark Jones, Jeanette Kok-Kritzinger, Sean Nurse and Lerato Matebese in action.. Admission to Zwartkops will cost R130 per adult and R90 per student, with kids under the age of 12 going in for free.  Everybody is invited to visit the pits at any time, while food and drink will be on sale or you can take your own. To find out more, call the Zwartkops Raceway at 012 384 2299.