Isn’t it beautiful when beauty brands realise the importance of speaking to ‘natural’ and ‘no harsh ingredients’ being used in products, as well as ‘greener’ and ‘more sustainable approaches’ to skincare? There is, however, a sly trend that has been doing the rounds.  Dr Stephan Helary, founder of Terres d’Afrique says: “Greenwashing has been common practice since the consumer started shifting to more natural and eco-friendly products due to health concerns about certain ingredients. Brands always try to jump on the bandwagon on trends and many big brands aren’t always very scrupulous about being transparent and honest.” This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Salmari Fourie, Brand Manager at Lulu & Marula says consumers should be encouraged to choose a sustainable option year-round at an affordable rate when it comes to beauty products.  “Misleading claims such as ‘healthier, more natural, chemical-free, less wasteful to the environment’ are deemed greenwashing if it is not actually true.” As consumer, it is important to endeavour to be more conscious of what we are consuming.  This includes what we buy, use and throw away.  By asking the question, “What is the impact on the planet?” within these three categories, you can make an informed decision on whether you need to buy, use or toss the item. Today, with all the greenwashing, it is rather difficult to tell whether a product is clean or not, unless you have good awareness of bad ingredients. According to Formulation Specialist at Lulu & Marula, Monique Spaltman and Dr Stephan Helary, these are some guidelines that might make the identification process a little easier: Dr Helary says sustainability is no longer enough, and regeneration is necessary.  “Sustainability means that what we take and what the earth gives are equal, but it is not the case. We have been taking more for years and now we need to regenerate.” READ: This is South Africa’s favourite and most searched for beauty brand… There are key ingredients to look out for on clean beauty product labels to use as a guideline to assist you in making informed, clean decisions for your skin and the planet: As consumers, it is also our responsibility to encourage beauty brands to better themselves in the field of developing planet-friendly products without becoming guilty of greenwashing. Here are some ideas on how you can do that: