A reality show that many assumed would not be back on air is returning. Living the Dream with Somizi season five’s release date has been announced along with an explosive new trailer.  The last season took a pause due to the Covid-19 pandemic and this also allowed time for the star to deal with his separation from his estranged husband Mohale Motaung.  Somizi shared last December that he was afraid of the reaction to the new season as the media personality is expected to give viewers a deeper look into his personal life like never before.  In a statement on Tuesday, Showmax said season five picks ups from the aftermath of Mohale’s shocking allegations of abuse against Somizi and the passing of his mother, legendary actress Mary Twala.  The show follows Somizi as he tries to salvage a career that was in danger at the time of filming as he was temporarily removed from Idols SA as a judge and radio host on Metro FM due to the abuse allegations.  In the trailer of Living the Dream with Somizi, the star is not holding anything back.  He is seen living his best luxury lifestyle during his trip to Cape Town and the show also features a recurring appearance by his daughter Bahumi Madisakwane Mhlongo and his best friend Vusi Nova.  The show also captures Nova’s reaction to Mohale’s abuse story that broke the internet.  From the trailer, it appears Somizi and those close to him are going to take a deep dive into this topic and they are going to do so publicly. Something many of them haven’t done yet, posing uncomfortable questions for the cookbook author to answer.  One of them was from his life-long friend, fellow choreographer and actress Lorcia Cooper, who asked if Somizi did hit Mohale.  Candice Fangueiro, head of content at Showmax says Somizi is one of the most influential celebrities in the country and has a longstanding relationship with the platform.  “His wedding special, Somizi & Mohale: The Union, was the union of the year and set a then-record for the most first-day views on Showmax at launch. Having told the story of the wedding, which appeared to many almost like a fairytale, for balance we wanted to explore everything that followed,” she said.   The director of Living the Dream with Somizi this season is Sandile Ndluli from The River and the production company behind the show is Teddy Geldart’s Dopezuluboi Productions.  Season 5 of Living The Dream With Somizi will start streaming on 4 May 2022, on Showmax with new episodes coming every Wednesday.