This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. TS Galaxy owner and president Tim Sukazi made some controversial comments recently when he said referees are out to get his team. Sukazi said this in a radio interview, His coach, Sead Ramovic has also spoken on referees having to up their game and blaming them for the team’s failure to collect maximum points in some games.  There is a thinking that could have an impact on the players who know they are cushioned even when they don’t do well because the blame will go to the referees.  READ ALSO: Chiefs come unstuck again as Galaxy get important point “Let me clear things straight ahead… What the chairman said is how he sees things,” said Ramovic when quizzed about this on Tuesday.  “On the other hand, if you listen to me you will hear what I mean. I do not blame the referees so much only when we don’t win.  “But I also say that our main task, our main problem is that we don’t score. We have to improve, and maybe it is a question of quality in the end, but the good thing is we play well and we get into the last third…  “But you will agree with me that when we play and should get a penalty awarded and we don’t, then I ask myself why are the refs not doing their jobs because it is killing our game.  “If we, for example in the game against SuperSport (United) we should have got three penalties awarded for us. But we didn’t. We lost two points there. So, what should I do? Stay calm about it?  “Of course we say that, but in the end I say that the penalty we got in the last game was not fair, it should not have been given. So you should agree with me that the referees here in South Africa are not in the standard they could be.  “And I am not the only one that blames it. I think a lot of coaches today in this league would agree with me.  “I don’t want to blame the refs because we are down, but I am saying if we are to improve (our football) then the referees also have to improve.”