The South African Weather Service (SAWS) has issued yet another yellow level 3 warning for disruptive winds between Storms River and Port Alfred to Coffee Bay in the Eastern Cape on Thursday. The weather service has called on residents in the areas to watch out for damage to settlements and temporary structures and disruption of ports and/or small harbours.  A yellow level 1 warning for damaging waves resulting in disruption of small harbours and/or ports and localised disruption to beachfront activities has been issued between Cannon Rocks and Port Edward as well as between Cape Point and Plettenberg Bay until mid-day on Thursday. Gauteng: Partly cloudy and warm. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme. Mpumalanga: Cool in places on the Highveld, otherwise partly cloudy and warm, becoming cloudy with even fog patches and isolated thundershowers expected in the east. It will hot in places in the Lowveld. Limpopo: Partly cloudy and warm to hot,.. becoming cloudy in the evening fog patches along the escarpment. Isolated showers and rain are expected in the east and north. North West: Cool in the south, otherwise fine and warm. Free State: Fine and cool. Northern Cape: Fine and cool to warm but cold over the southern parts where it will be partly cloudy.The wind along the coast will be light southerly becoming moderate to fresh south-westerly in the afternoon. Western Cape: Cloudy to partly cloudy and cool with isolated showers along the south coast in the morning. It will be fine and warm in the west but cold in places in the south and south-west coastal areas.The wind along the coast will be strong southerly to south-easterly but westerly to south-westerly along the south coast becoming fresh in the afternoon The expected UVB sunburn index: Moderate. Western half of the Eastern Cape: Partly cloudy and cold, but cloudy and cool with isolated showers andrain along the coast and adjacent interior. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong south westerly,becoming light to moderate in the evening. ALSO READ: Level 3 warning: Disruptive winds expected in parts of Eastern Cape Eastern half of the Eastern Cape: Fine and cool in places, otherwise partly cloudy and cold, but cloudywith isolated showers and rain in the extreme east. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong south westerly, becoming moderate at night. KwaZulu-Natal: Partly cloudy in the west at first, otherwise cloudy and cool but warm in the extreme north-east. Isolated showers and thundershowers are expected. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong southerly to south-westerly, moderating from late afternoon. The expected UVB sunburn index: Moderate.