Kaitano Tembo was fired for losing to GladAfrica Championship side Tshakhuma in the Nedbank Cup quarterfinal, and that makes one wonder if Mato  READ ALSO: Pirates update: Mako in stable condition; Davids slams ambulance servicesBut arg, that’s not going to happen, at least according to Seema, who is confident that he will remain in his post until at least the end of the season where his performance will be reviewed. He was asked by members of the media if he feared that his job could be on the line, and his immediate response was: “You want to fire me?”.He went to plead about how he needs to finish the season and see how far his side can go as they linger in mid-table where a repeat of last season’s fourth-place finish seems unlikely.  “Last season I was not here and the club finished fourth. This season I am working on my journey, why would I be disappointed? There are still six games to go and I am not the last team on the log. Let’s stay positive and encourage the new boys who are playing in their first season in the team. The team that finished in the top four last season, how long have they been together? I am still a Golden Arrows coach,” said Seema.He went on to reveal that he was quite impressed with his side’s showing against Sundowns, even though they recorded the club’s worst victory at the hands of the defending champions.  “I am not disappointed with their effort, they tried but because of the quality of the opposition, they are on top of their game. The scoreline is disappointing but the effort of the players, no, they tried. Show me any team that went to Sundowns and played like we did,” Seema said.He added: “I can’t falter them because we tried with everything that we had and everything that was available. We must count the guys who are playing in the Premier League for the first time. They are in the building phase and getting six goals now is keeping us on the negative side in terms of goals. If you don’t score against Sundowns you know that you are going to have a problem because they are going to keep on coming. But this one is gone and we are looking forward to the next one.”