The ANC’s eThekwini region on Tuesday confirmed the newly elected regional deputy chairperson, Thembo Ntuli, would act as chair on behalf of Zandile Gumede who has stepped aside. Gumede was re-elected to the position earlier this month at the ANC’s eThekwini regional conference held in Durban.  The former eThekwini mayor’s slate, which took a clean sweep of all positions, included Ntuli as her deputy, Musa Nciki as regional secretary, and Nkosenhle Madlala as deputy secretary and Zoe Shabalala as treasurer. ALSO READ: Zandile Gumede re-elected eThekwini chairperson Gumede was elected despite facing more than 2,500 counts of fraud, corruption, racketeering and the contravention of the Municipal Finance Management Act linked to the Durban Solid Waste contract amounting to more than R300 million. She was charged along with 21 others and their trial is expected to run from 18 July to 31 August at the Pietermaritzburg High Court. Gumede indicated that she would continue to abide by the ANC’s step aside resolution.  The rule requires ANC members facing criminal charges to step down pending the finalisation of their court cases. The newly elected ANC regional executive committee (REC) in eThekwini on Tuesday briefed the media after convening its first official meeting on Monday. eThekwini is the governing party’s biggest region in the country.  The REC confirmed that Shabalala, who is also affected by the step aside resolution due to corruption charges, would continue to abide by the ANC rule as well. Shabalala’s responsibilities as regional treasurer would be taken over by the REC’s finance committee. Nciki defended the decision by ANC delegates to elect Gumede and Shabalala.  He said delegates used their democratic rights enshrined in the ANC constitution to nominate and elect the pair, despite the charges against them. Gumede and Shabalala were also appointed to serve on the regional working committee, which conducts the tasks and work of the ANC eThekwini region. The ANC’s eThekwini REC said its main focus ahead of the party’s provincial and national elective conferences would be on fostering unity among ANC members.  In this regard, Nciki said they had “co-opted” eThekwini Municipality Speaker Thabani Nyawose to be part of the REC.  Nyawose challenged Gumede for the position of regional chair and lost. “The unity is the foundation of the ANC. Without unity, we will have no organisation.  “Our task will be to unite the ANC and end pre-conference groupings and work as one region,” Nciki said. He said Nyawose’s position as the speaker of the eThekwini metro was safe. “We have a programme of unity, so Thabani must be invited and be part of the programme,” Nciki said. “We must co-opt these comrades to close these gaps in order to support the programme that we want to embark on… Thabani is not only a speaker now, but he’s also a REC member and we must assure you that he’s very safe.” The REC refused to be drawn into naming its preferred candidates ahead of the ANC’s provincial and national elective conferences. NOW READ: Zandile Gumede and co-accused’s corruption trial to start in July