Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a common disorder that 1 in 4 adults face which affects the large intestine and prevents many people from eating the foods they enjoy. People who suffer from irritable bowel syndrome usually experience stomach pain, bloating, diarrhoea, and constipation when they eat specific foods. The cause of this gut sensitivity is not well understood, and according to the founder of Newtricion Wellness Dieticians, Omy Naidoo, there is no universal list of foods to avoid for people with irritable bowel syndrome, but there are some foods which could help avoid the disorder. Asparagus works as a prebiotic as it contains high levels of inulin which is an indigestible fibre which feeds healthy bacteria like bifidobacteria and lactobacilli. This good bacteria aids digestion reduces stress and reduces the risk of weight gain. Fresh ginger aids in the creation of stomach acid to assist your gut with moving food through your intestines to ensure that food does not sit and ferment, which would cause bloating and pain.  Ginger is also known to strengthen your immune system, making your body stronger when it is time to fight against colds or flu. Add fresh grated ginger to your soups, stews, smoothies or hot beverages.  Many fruits which are low in fructose such as bananas, oranges, grapefruit and berries are a lot less easy to digest, which means that they are less likely to leave you with a bloated tummy or cause you gas. Try having one of these fruits at least twice a day to ensure aid in your digestive health. ALSO READ: Daily hacks: How to improve your indoor air quality for a healthier winter Leafy greens, such as spinach or kale are high in fibre and include a form of sugar that aids in the growth of good bacteria in the gut. Steamed and cooked vegetables are easier to digest, especially if you suffer from diarrhoea. If you struggle to eat leafy greens regularly, try adding them to your smoothies with some sweet fruits. Avocadoes are high in fibre and are also low-fructose fruit which means that they aid in digestive health and cause less gas. Avocadoes, however, are also high in fat, so you should consider having them in moderation. The best ways to enjoy avocadoes are on salads, on toast, in smoothies, or even on their own with a pinch of salt and pepper.