As cross-examination of the state’s first witness in the Senzo Meyiwa murder trial progressed, defence advocate Malesela Teffo appeared to irritate both the witness (Saps forensic investigator Sergeant Thabo Mosia) and Judge Tshifhiwa Maumela. Sifisokuhle Ntuli, Muzikawukhulelwa Sthemba Sibiya, Bongani Sandiso Ntanzi, Mthobisi Prince Ncube, and Mthokoziseni Ziphozonke Maphisa face a string of charges over the Bafana Bafana captain’s murder in Vosloorus in 2014. Meyiwa, who also captained Orlando Pirates, was gunned at the family home of his girlfriend, Afro gospel singer Kelly Khumalo. Teffo came under fire by the visibly irritated Maumela, who took issue with the defence’s repetitive line of questioning. The equally irritated Teffo then asked the judge if he could perform his duties and represent his clients. Teffo told Maumela that his client’s rights were being infringed upon by the court. “I have to defend my client,” Teffo told Maumela, to which Maumela responded firmly, “We will not be subjected to repetition.” ALSO READ: Freedom Day in South Africa – Why we celebrate the day of elections During the cross-exam, Mosia was at pains to explain that he is not privy to the results of forensic analysis after he submits evidence. It was Teffo who broke the news that female DNA was found in the infamous cap found at the crime scene eight years ago. The state is alleging that accused number three is the one who’d entered the Khumalo family home on the night, and attacked Meyiwa. Up until this point, the hat recovered from the scene was believed to have belonged to the killer. But under cross-examination, Mosia said he had taken the hat ‘because no one knew anything about it.”  Teffo said, “I am saying DNA ‘showed that the hat belonged to a woman.” Teffo then asked accused number three (Ncube) to stand up so that the court and Mosia could see, he is a man. Teffo also questioned Mosia about why a walking stick belonging to Meyiwa’s friend, Tumelo Madlala, who was also in the house at the time of the murder – wasn’t collected as part of the evidence. Teffo pointed out that Khumalo’s sister, Zandile had used the walking stick against the attackers, and it could have contained the murderer’s DNA. Mosia responded that he saw no reason to investigate the walking stick at the time because it belonged to one of the victims, but he later conceded the killer’s DNA may have been on that stick. Mosia also surmised that the murder weapon could be a revolver because he did not find cartridges at the scene. The case is expected to resume on Thursday (28 April 2022). NOW READ: Senzo Meyiwa murder trial: Forensic expert grilled