Small spaces are always a challenge when it comes to home décor. Still, with a hint of creativity, it is possible to spruce up your balcony a bit. With a couple of small add-ons and changes, your balcony could soon be the Pinterest-worthy boutique balcony everyone wants to pop some bubbly from. Lights If you’re keen on creating a boutique balcony that screams romance, comfort and home all at once, the first thing you need is string lights. That will undoubtedly add to the mood you’re trying to create. In fact, you could even hang a decorative pendant light from the ceiling, which will instantly create a much homier atmosphere. Perhaps choose a pendant light that fits in well with the rest of the indoor lights to marry the home and balcony spaces and create a feel of unity. Small table If you enjoy hosting friends, your balcony requires a small table on which guests can place their drinks, small plates and smartphones while spending time catching up in the comfort of your home. Whether it’s a loose standing table between two chairs or a clever bar table fixed to the balcony’s balustrades, you’ll be happy to have it either way. This also offers a flat surface for a pot plant or that vintage ornament on your beautifully decorated balcony. Candles Some decorative candles or chandeliers would also make magic on your balcony, adding to the atmosphere when you’re having friends over (or even when you’d like to relax outside with a Netflix series and some popcorn). Hanging chair or couch There is no use investing in the perfect boutique balcony if you can’t sit down and enjoy the view. Whether it’s a dreamy daybed, a lounger, a hanging chair, a Vetsak or two or three fashionable chairs, you will know what will fit your balcony space and the vibe you’re after. Scatter cushions Nothing says home like a beautiful scatter cushion. Whether you’re going for an earthy look and feel, or a colourful, Maroccan-style boutique balcony, a couple of scatter cushions will help you reach that goal in a matter of minutes. Bring the indoors outdoors The current décor trends include bringing the outdoors indoors, but when we talk boutique balcony, the idea is to bring the indoors outdoors. Large sliding doors that create the illusion of the balcony merely being an extension of your home, could make the world’s difference. If your budget is tight and you’re not keen on doing any construction and renovations, consider putting a rug outside, with a basket and some blankets to create that inviting atmosphere on your balcony space. Reed mats are your friend Many balconies come with rather uninteresting and often unappealing balustrades. Don’t let this get you down, though. There are ways to get around it. Cover your balcony’s balustrades with a simple reed mat, which you merely fasten with cable ties – a cheap hack that will change your balcony from boring to boutique instantaneously. Paint the floors Consider painting your balcony’s floor to give it a fresh look. A coat of the same light colour of paint on the walls, ceiling and trellises could also help make the balcony appear bigger. Plants Vertical gardens are ideal for balcony spaces as they take up less space and still give you the touch of greenery you’re after. You could also get a creeping plant that eventually covers the one wall. Adding some larger plants in one or two corners of your balcony could help create the illusion of space as it guides the eyes upwards. The same goes for plants hanging from the ceiling. A pot plant or two are also always welcome. The more greenery, the better – especially if you live in a large, grey apartment block with barely any colour. READ: Create the look: Former Miss Universe, Natasha Joubert shares her bedroom décor A view Last, but not least… If you can, get a view!