Since the announcement that the Kardashian family would be breathing new life into their reality TV presence came last year, their South African fans have been dying to know where they can watch their new show and Disney+ has decided to come to the rescue.One of the most popular families in entertainment recently held a premiere event for their upcoming reality show, set to air on the streaming platform, Hulu.  The show has already started streaming in the US and will be available to view on Disney+ when the streaming platform launches in South Africa and 40 other territories next month.“The family you know and love is here with a brand new series, giving an all-access pass into their lives. Kris, Kourtney, Kim, Khloé, Kendall and Kylie bring the cameras back to give truth to their stories. From the intense pressures of running billion-dollar businesses to the hilarious joys of playtime and school drop-offs, this series brings viewers into the fold with a rivetingly honest story of love and life in the spotlight,” explained Disney+ in a statement.  Fulwell 73 partner Ben Winston executive produces alongside Emma Conway and Elizabeth Jones with Danielle King serving as showrunner and executive producer. Disney+ is the dedicated streaming home for movies and shows from Disney, Pixar, Marvel, Star Wars, and National Geographic, along with The Simpsons and much more.  In select international markets, it also includes the new general entertainment content brand, Star. The flagship direct-to-consumer streaming service from The Walt Disney Company, Disney+ is part of the Disney Media and Entertainment Distribution segment.  The service offers commercial-free streaming alongside an ever-growing collection of exclusive originals, including feature-length films, documentaries, live-action and animated series, and short-form content.  With unprecedented access to Disney’s long history of incredible film and television entertainment, Disney+ is also the exclusive streaming home for the newest releases from The Walt Disney Studios.  And through Star, it offers the latest from 20th Century Studios, Disney Television Studios, FX, Searchlight Pictures, and more. For more, visit disneyplus.com, or find the Disney+ app on most mobile and connected TV devices. Disney+ launches in South Africa on 18 May.  South Africans will be able to stream their favourite shows at R119.00 per month, or R1,119.00 for an annual subscription.