Kaizer Chiefs supporters are unhappy and angry about the increase in ticket prices ahead of their return to watch their team live at FNB Stadium this Saturday. Amakhosi announced that their ticket prices for home games will go up by at least 75% and this has upset some of their supporters. The tickets, which previously cost between R40 and R80 depending on the level, will now start at R70. This has happened due to added operational costs that the club has to carry with the return of supporters under strict Covid-19 regulations. READ ALSO: Chiefs increase ticket prices as they get ready to welcome fans back “We would like to stress that government regulations necessitated additional operational requirements and manpower and even at those prices, we are destined to run the event at a sizable loss,” explained FNB Stadium management company’s Bertie Grobler.  “However, we are happy to work with the home club to ensure a safe and secure event compliant with legislation and government regulations.” Amakhosi will play in front of supporters for the first time in two years when they host SuperSport United in a DStv Premiership match on Saturday evening.  The news of the increase was not well received by some of the supporters. The Citizen spoke to loyal supporter, Nicky Khoza, who watches almost every home game Chiefs play.   “It is unfair. It is almost a 75% increase and they forget that Covid has hit everyone. We were also hard hit in the pocket and this is now too much to fork out for one game,” he said.  Asked if he will be going on Saturday, he said he was not sure because the price announcement had caught him by surprise and he would still have to adjust his budget.  “They could have increased by R10 and told us that next season they will go up so we get time to adjust as well. We don’t only pay for tickets, but there is also transport and other costs we have to consider,”  he said.  Replying to the club on their Twitter account, many of the supporters were not too keen on the increase.  “But @KaizerChiefs we just came from Covid and the standard right now of the team playing is the same as primary school kids and you put the price high like that?” wrote KG Masemola.  “Paying R70 just to watch @KaizerChiefs playing boring football, why can’t you just make tickets cost R30 so that you can have more fans in the stadium. What’s the use of having 3,000 fans when you can have 15,000 plus with a lower price. Ey poor marketing @KaizerChiefs,” said Menga Nyosi.