Boer Soek ’n Vrou’s two-time presenter, Marciel Hopkins got to walk down the aisle during her very own Boland wedding on 9 April, bringing her love story full circle too. Marciel got engaged to Handré Lourens during her first season as presenter of the Afrikaans matchmaker series, Boer Soek ’n Vrou.  The reality programme has been broadcast since 2008, with Elma Postma being the first season’s presenter. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. “A wedding was planned during the second season, and I will be a married woman during the third season,” Marciel says about her Boer Soek ’n Vrou presenters’ journey.  She has just been announced as the presenter for the series’ 15th season, which will air in January 2023.  This will be her third season as Boer Soek ’n Vrou presenter and she says: “This is truly special and something I will remember forever.” Marciel shared a glimpse of her and Handré’s wedding day on Instagram with a photo of him lovingly kissing her forehead.  Her hair was taken back beautifully for the special occasion and her red lips and nails emphasised her bold beauty perfectly.  Handré wore a black suit and tie, looking rather dashing himself. PICS: Inside Marciel Hopkins’ bubbly winelands bridal shower In her Instagram caption, Marciel wrote that they got married on the exact day on which Handré had asked her to be his girlfriend six years ago.  She said that it was the perfect autumn day in the Boland and that she is looking forward to an adventure of a lifetime with her new husband. Handré shared the same photo on his Instagram feed, saying: “Today I am the luckiest man on earth to call this incredible and beautiful woman my bride. A lifetime of adventure, love and passion awaits, and I cannot wait to write the rest of our story with you.” For Marciel Hopkins-Lourens, life’s lessons, friendships, our beautiful country and of course, love, are the main things that matter and now – like quite a couple of the farmers and their matches on Boer Soek ’n Vrou – she can also say she’s married her match.