Democratic Alliance (DA) leader John Steenhuisen has slammed government over its response to the devastation caused by floods in KwaZulu-Natal. Steenhuisen on Tuesday said there was no coordinated national response to assist desperate residents in KZN who, he claimed, had been left to fend for themselves. He said despite Cabinet declaring a national state of disaster last week to mobile resources after the destruction of water and electricity infrastructure – the situation on the ground was desperate for flood victims. “In the real world, no one is managing the process. Everyone has simply run away from the problem, and desperate residents have been left to fend for themselves,” Steenhuisen said. “City officials have switched off their phones, the mayor has gone AWOL, councillors are telling panicked residents to eff off on WhatsApp, the Premier [Sihle Zikalala] grabbed a water tanker for himself, council staff tried to steal care packages donated to rescuers, and when ministers finally arrived on the scene they ended up commandeering helicopters meant for rescue and recovery missions for their own self-important fly-overs.” ALSO READ: Fears over the looting of flood relief funds a ‘great source of shame’, says Ramaphosa Steenhuisen was speaking in Cape Town during a hybrid joint sitting of Parliament called by Ramaphosa. The deluge that struck KZN two weeks ago claimed the lives of 435 people, with 54 people still missing or unaccounted for.  The floods also left a trail of destruction in parts of the Eastern Cape and North West provinces. Steenhuisen bemoaned that two weeks since the floods hit, many communities in KZN were still without water and electricity. He said in many areas there was still no sign of water tankers, which could have easily been brought in from other provinces. “If widespread access to clean water is not resolved urgently we will soon see the outbreak of a second disaster in the form of deadly diseases. “The urgency of restoring these services, and particularly clean water, cannot be overstated.” The DA leader also criticised KZN Premier Sihle Zikalala after a municipal water tanker was stationed at his private house in the suburb of La Mercy in eThekwini. “The KZN premier can help you with water, he knows a good supplier,” Steenhuisen said. In a video that went viral on social media, a water tanker was seen delivering water to Zikalala’s home after the deadly floods. Zikalala apologised for the incident and claimed that the tanker made its way close to his home after servicing nearby residents. He also said the tanker was used by his wife to cook and provide food to flood victims. Speaking during the joint sitting of Parliament, Zikalala accused Steenhuisen of grandstanding by bringing up the issue in Parliament. He accused the DA leader of ignoring disadvantaged communities during his visit last week to the province to inspect the damage caused by the floods. “One of the things we must do; we must stop discrimination. “The leader of the opposition in this house comes to the very same ward, ward 58, and he chooses to go to upmarket areas… he does not visit people who were accommodated in halls,” Zikalala said. Steenhuisen accused Zikalala of lying to Parliament about his visit. “This man who steals water is not telling the truth,” he said. NOW READ: Zikalala says ‘sorry’ for water tanker misunderstanding