The Taste Master South Africa (SA) is ready to whip up more baking stars as it returns for a third season.  The South African Film and Television (Safta) award-winning show puts home bakers to the ultimate test to create scrumptious confectionery treats in a bid to be crowned champion. The Taste Master SA will once again partner with pantry staple, Royal Baking Powder, as popular chef, Zola Nene and artisanal baker Fritz Schoon reprise their roles as judges.  Foodies and fans of cooking competitions will know that Nene was recently a judge for Masterchef South Africa on M-Net and the chef is looking for baking connoisseurs for this competition.  “We all know that baking is a science, but more than that, it’s an opportunity to showcase immense creativity. In this season of The Taste Master SA, we’re looking to be wowed by impressive technique as well as elaborate designs.” The judges are also looking for a baker not afraid to take risks and who can think outside the box.  The showrunners have promised a bigger and better season. Season two winner Kyle Haytread wowed the judges with his brownie and milk tart cremeaux, a Russian zephyr sweet with coconut and honey and a Russian inspired cheesecake pop with Amarula, cherries and nuts.  The 12 contestants will get the opportunity to showcase their talent and creativity through the weekly rigorous challenges that will test their skills, nerves and patience as they battle it out to win the final prize.  Entries are opened and applications must be submitted via The Taste Master website.  Hopefuls will need to fill in the online application, submit a video explaining who they are, their love for food and show off the culinary creation they baked using Royal Baking Powder.  At the end of season three, the winner will receive a cash prize of R50 000 and throughout the season contestants will get the opportunity to win kitchen appliances to the value of R50 000.  Entries close on 25 April 2022.  Season three of  The Taste Master SA is set to air on 7 July on SABC 2.