SOCCER 10 POOL OF THE DAYFriday 15 April S10 V1 Bournemouth can consolidate second place in the Championship – and automatic promotion back to the Premier League if they win their Good Friday clash at home to Middlesbrough. More details at www.soccer6.co.za. M1 AFC Bournemouth vs Middlesbrough: Bournemouth are 10 points behind Championship leaders Fulham but six ahead of third placed Nottingham Forest as they bid for automatic promotion. Middlesboro have lost their last two matchesM2 Birmingham City vs Coventry City: The last five meetings between these Midlands rivals have all ended in draws. The last clash in November was goalless.M3 Hull City vs Cardiff City: Hull have lost their last two home matches while Cardiff have won their last two away games, with a 2-1 score-line on both occasions.M4 Peterborough United vs Blackburn Rovers: One victory in their last 15 games sees Peterborough bottom of the Championship. Blackburn’s hopes of a promotion playoff place have been hit by two successive 1-1 daws.M5 Preston North End vs Millwall: Preston play a third successive home game, looking to add to wins over Blackpool and QPR. Millwall have lost only one of their previous five away games.M6 Sheffield United vs Reading: Sheff Utd have won six in a row against Reading and a seventh would boost their promotion hopes.M7 Stoke City vs Bristol City: Bristol City’s home win over Stoke in November ended a run of six games between the two clubs where the home side failed to win. It included four away wins for City.M8 Swansea City vs Barnsley: Swansea have collected 13 out of a possible 15 points from their past five league fixtures. Barnsley are eight points from safety, firmly inside the Championship relegation zone.M9 West Bromwich Albion vs Blackpool: West Brom have slumped down to 12th in the Championship with three wins from their past 10 matches. Blackpool have two points from their past four matches.M10 Wycombe Wanderers vs Plymouth Argyle: Both clubs are in the chase for promotion from League One. Wycombe are unbeaten in their last eight games but Plymouth are five points ahead of their standings. Suggested permutation: R4.00 1 x 2,3 x 1 x 3 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 1