Teased in the run-up to the New York International Auto Show that commenced last week, Hyundai officially revealed the facelift Palisade at the Big Apple’s automotive showpiece almost four years after its initial debut in Los Angeles. A model that came to South Africa last year in response to right-hand-drive demand from Australia, the Palisade’s exterior changes, though small, are easy to spot when viewed from the front. Riding on new 20-inch alloy wheels, the grille now conforms to Hyundai’s cascade effect by being flat instead of rounded, while the lower section of the split headlight gains an L-effect diode as well as a small rectangular light embedded into the bumper so as to provide “flow-down” look from the upper daytime running LED. Along with a reshaped air intake, the front skidplate has revised and the rear bumper restyled to incorporate a thin light strip rather than a conventional reflectors previously used. The rest of the rear  continues without any other changes. ALSO READ: Palisade: Most expensive Hyundai worth its R1m price tag? Inside, the tweaks are more prominent and consist of the same steering wheel as the Tucson, Staria, Alcazar/Grand Creta and facelift Creta, a bigger infotainment system measuring twelve instead of 10.25-inches, a new instrument panel, new seats designed to reduce long journey fatigue and second row ventilated chairs. As well as a faster wireless smartphone charger now able to charge 15-watts instead of five, the air vents have been reshaped, the rear-view mirror replaced by a digital item and a heating function made available for the electrically folding/unfolding third row. Continuing to seat eight as standard, the Palisade also retains the seven-seat configuration in the eschewing of the bench second row for a 2+2 captain’s chair arrangement.  Rounding the changes off are the USB ports that now feature type-C instead of type-A outlets. Together with the array of safety and driver assistance systems, Hyundai has kept the Palisade’s drivetrain unchanged, meaning outputs of 217kW/355Nm from the normally aspirated 3.8-litre V6 petrol engine directed to the front or all four wheels via a push-button eight-speed automatic gearbox. For markets outside the United States, the Palisade is set to continue with the 2.2-litre turbodiesel that sends 142kW/440Nm to all four wheels through the same eight-speed ‘box. In the States, seven colours will be offered; Hyper White, Steel Graphite, Abyss Black, Typhoon Silver, Moonlight Cloud, Sierra Burgundy and a new hue called Robust Emerald. Going on sale in the US summer, which runs from June to September, chance are that the Palisade will become available in South Africa towards the end of the year, however, an official confirmation remains to be announced.