Inspired by When We See Us, the new exhibition opening at the Zeitz MOCAA on 20 November, an annual gala themed ‘Art & Opulence” – presented by Gucci – will be held at the museum on Saturday, 19 November.  The event will see notable figures from the art, fashion, film and entertainment industries join in on the celebration of contemporary art from Africa and its diaspora. The When We See Us exhibition is a large-scale, global exploration of Black self-representation through figurative painting and portraiture spanning more than a century.  In the lead-up to the exhibition opening, the museum will host various programmes that speak about global Black experience, including a series of webinars that already kicked off on 29 March.  These programmes, as well as the suitably themed gala, will address the exhibition’s key themes of perpetuation, essence and radicality of Black joy and celebrate the continent of Africa, Africans and African-ness in all its forms. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Gucci’s partnership with the Zeitz MOCAA extends to the travelling of the When We See Us exhibition to major museums across the United States and Europe.  In addition to supporting the exhibition, the funds raised from the gala will also go towards the institution’s mandate of a civic space that furthers the contemplation of and education about art from Africa. As one of the world’s leading luxury brands that continuously redefines luxury while celebrating creativity, craftsmanship and innovation, Gucci has long been a supporter of the arts and this partnership speaks to the House’s commitment to promoting culture and preserving heritage.  The Zeitz MOCAA x Gucci Gala marks a return for the museum’s continuous fundraising efforts and is set to become an annual highlight on Africa’s social calendar. READ: Rachel Kolisi says Desmond Tutu ‘Truth to Power’ exhibition was emotional and inspiring “Zeitz MOCAA looks forward to welcoming its board of trustees, Global Council members, as well as special guests to a night of Art & Opulence,” says Koyo Kouoh, Executive Director and Chief Curator of the Zeitz MOCAA in Cape Town.  “The Zeitz MOCAA Gala and its theme is a celebration of excellence, triumph and affirmation of the global Black experience, and is true to out relationship with the larger art and culture field,” he says.  “We are thankful for out long-standing partnership with Gucci. At a time when many institutions across the globe are continuing to feel the impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic, this event provides Zeitz MOCAA with an opportunity to further its goals and continue to strive towards access for all and the education and celebration of art from Africa and its diaspora.” Kouoh also says: “In its role as a site for public dialogue, exhibitions, research and collection, and storytelling that contemporary art enables, the institution promotes narratives that are important to the building of communities, and we see this gala as a significant milestone in working towards this vision.” For more information about the 2022 Zeitz MOCAA Gala tickets and table sales, contact Gwyn Matthews by e-mailing gala@zeitzmocaa.museum.