Chef Ramon Gouws, 38, has been in the industry for eighteen years. He’s seen trends come and go. He’s been out of the restaurant scene, and now, he’s back with a bang with his brand new restaurant, Alēia, which has just been launched. Alēia Restaurant, situated in a space on Pretoria’s Lynnwood Road which used to be occupied by Harley Davidson, is set to surprise you with many enticing elements – from its décor to its delectable cuisine. Located opposite Sutherlands Home Furniture and in close proximity to the N1 highway, the eatery, wine bar and art gallery is sure to lure foodies from afar. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The term food for thought gets a whole new meaning at Alēia, with food that has you pondering over its flavours and textures for many minutes after swallowing. Chef Ramon Gouws prefers to keep the restaurant’s dinner menus set, with the option of a food and wine pairing. Lunch is also offered at the restaurant and will include all kinds of delicious light options with a Mediterranean twist. Whilst the menu will be constantly changing, imagine a set menu with courses consisting of some of the freshest seafood (think fresh salmon, prawns and crayfish) you’ve ever tasted in Pretoria, delicious lamb coupled with perfectly prepared Pomme Anna and dessert that comes with an interesting, sweet Risotto twist. READ: Eat like a billionaire with this in-flight menu on a private jet In addition to its brilliant cuisine, Alēia has also partnered with none other than Jenna Clifford. Her showroom, which was previously based at Lynnwood Bridge has now moved into the Alēia space, offering diners the additional luxury experience of browsing through her beautiful and unique jewellery pieces while indulging in a glass of wine.   That’s not all, though. Jenna Clifford has also recently launched a crockery and glassware range, which is also used in Alēia’s table settings, which means you’ll be sipping wine from one of her beautiful wine glasses with an elegant, taller, and slimmer-than-the-norm stem. Even from the set menu, it is clear that Chef Ramon Gouws and his team are clued up as ever when it comes to good quality wines. Think Simonsig Kaapse Vonkel 2019, Diemersdal Sauvignon Rosé 2021, La Motte Sauvignon Blanc 2021, Rust en Vrede Estate 2018 and more. If you’re one for the finer things in life, including unique art pieces and aesthetic décor, Alēia is the place to visit. The restaurant’s walls are filled with art (both local and international), which is also for sale. The art also adds to the already impressive décor, which has clearly been carefully thought through. From majestic chandeliers hanging from the extra-high ceilings to large wooden tables with U-shaped legs, loose standing barrels and an impressive bar for those visiting only for drinks, you’re definitely in for a décor and dining treat at Alēia.