With the Kaizer Chiefs supporters coming back to the stadium for the first time in a long time, Bernard Parker could be in the spotlight. And not for being the club’s captain at the moment or for his industrious performances. Parker is a player that the Amakhosi fans just like picking on when things do not go well for the team. He has borne the brunt of their frustrations a few times where the supporters called for him to be released as they believed he had reached his sell-by date at Naturena. READ ALSO: Confident Sundowns geered up for ‘similar’ Petro in Champions League tie But all of that doesn’t faze him as he keeps his head down and does what he enjoys most – giving his best for the team. “That at this age that I am in now, I am still able to give so much to this team… It all boils down to this badge,” he says clutching the Chiefs badge on his chest. “I try to do my best in every game to help the team. I am a team player. The support of my family and friends has seen me through and most of all I am enjoying myself.” On the secret of his longevity, Parker says it is about being a consummate professional, something he is trying to instill in the younger players in the team. “I train hard and then make sure that what I do in training, I take it to the field and enjoy myself. I am also trying to be a model to the young players in the team in terms of professionalism.” Parker recently played his 30th – the most by any player ever at Chiefs – Soweto derby where he gave a Man-of-the-Match performance. “Everybody was quite surprised that I can give such a performance as in the derby at this age. It’s a good feeling and topping it with a 30th appearance… But everybody should use me as a model in terms of professionalism. That’s what I am doing, I am just serving and enjoying what I am doing for the club.” Parker will again be expected to lead from the front when Amakhosi host SuperSport United at FNB Stadium on Saturday evening. He says it is a game they need to win to climb as high as they possibly can in the DStv Premiership standings.