It’s true. Your bedroom – which you thought was your safe spot – has now also been declared a germ zone.  Yes, there is bacteria build up happening right there where you sleep. According to Nic Shacklock from online-bedrooms.co.uk, “It is no secret that germs live all over our houses, however there are lots of hidden spots that we may not even think about during our cleaning rituals.” He says that spots like pillowcases and curtains are silent killers. “Even though they might look fresh and clean, they are hiding a range of nasty bacteria that could lead to enhanced allergies, unpleasant odours, and skin issues.” READ: 10 décor items you need for the perfect boutique balcony Pillows can accumulate over several thousand times more bacteria than a toilet seat in just one week.  Luckily, these organisms that are found on pillowcases are largely harmless and are simply a build up of skin cells, sweat and saliva. That’s why it’s recommended to keep your bed as clean as possible by washing bedding once a week. The surfaces we walk across daily are also culprits for harbouring germs.  In fact, it has been found that carpets are much dirtier than toilet seats.  It’s not just bacteria that we need to be worried about, though. Dust and dirt collect across floors, no matter how much traffic happens in the respective rooms.  That’s why all floors need to be vacuumed properly once a week. Lampshades and bases are often spots in the bedroom where dust and dirt settles.  Lamps are also common touch points in the room, so apart from requiring to be dusted off on a weekly basis, it also has to be disinfected. Curtains Curtains are dust capturing culprits in a bedroom and although they may appear to be clean, chances are that dust, pet hair and even mould spores can be found on them.  Every time curtains are opened or closed, these dirty particles swirl around mid-air. Consider doing a full curtain wash at least twice a year, or more often if you’re prone to dust allergies. It’s hard to admit that your bed – the place where you spend a third of your life – is also a hotbed for germs.  But, the truth is that yeast, mould, and bacteria could all be bunking in your bed, especially when your mattress is older than eight years.  A factor in making mattresses so inviting for germs, is gravity. Airborne particles of dust and debris float around the room before settling on the bed.  Daily exposure to these nasty microorganisms is not healthy for anyone, which is why it is recommended to switch up your mattress every even to eight years.