It’s Champions Day at Turffontein on Saturday when the entire Joburg season reaches a crescendo. There are seven feature races to look forward to headlined by the TAB The Premier’s Champions Challenge and the Computaform Sprint both of which are Grade 1 races. We see a card full of high-class horses and this meeting is the reason we love the game so much.I have seven rides and I feel I have definite chances on them. I ride MK’s Pride in the Champions Challenge and he tries 2000m for the first time. I will be doing everything in my power to defend my crown after winning the race last year on Got The Greenlight.That was billed as the race of the season and it has materialised into a top event. But with Kommetdieding taking his spot this year, it is spectacular. Last week saw the running of the Grade 1 HSH Princess Charlene Empress Club Stakes where Princess Calla finally got her day in the sun – and it was thoroughly deserved. What a top filly she is, and she had to pull out all the stops to gain her success. Well done to Ashley and Andrew Fortune on their first Grade 1 winner and congrats to Aldo Domeyer and the winning connections. I had a decent week, riding three winners and, as mentioned, I would like to increase that number today.Race 1 is a Juvenile Plate over 1600m and my best bet on the card comes up in the form of Shoemaker.He really impressed me in his debut win and he looks a real talent. I think he will be very hard to beat again despite the winner’s penalty. Oathkeeper ran behind him and still looks the main danger and I really believe they will fill the first two places. Race 2 is a Pinnacle Stakes over 1400m and it’s a small but very competitive field. Every runner has a claim as to why they can win but to narrow it down I think Prince Of Fire could be the horse to beat. He is a classy individual and my only concern is he is coming off a rest. But if close to peak fitness, he’ll be right there. Vars Vicky is the class horse and is the main danger while Willow Express is better than recent form and must be respected. Race 3 is the Grade 2 4Racing SA Fillies Nursery over 1160m and I ride Queen Of Gaul. I don’t think she could have been more impressive on debut. These two-year-olds improve rapidly and I am really hoping for a massive run, but I think we all have my stable companion to beat in Maharanee. She has won two out of two and looks potentially top class, so she sets the standard. None Other was also impressive on debut and must be respected. Race 4 is the Grade 2 Heineken SA Nursery over 1160m and I ride Cool Winter who brings experience into the race, which is always positive. He will have to find a few lengths on form but I’m hoping to run into the money. I think Union Square won incredibly well on debut and looks a smart prospect. With natural improvement he could very well be the horse to beat. Karangerang had won two out of two and looks the danger. Laguna Verda won a strong maiden plate impressively and must be respected while Set To Go has done nothing wrong and needs to be included as well. Race 5 is the Grade 2 Camellia Stakes over 1160m and I ride May Queen who is a decent filly on her day but would have to improve on her last two starts to feature.My value bet on the card comes up in the form of Sweet Future.She was unlucky in her latest and this looks an ample opportunity to gain further Black Type.Freed From Desire was disappointing last time but had valid excuses and rates the main and immediate danger.Sound Of Warning and Gallic Princess also have to be respected and included into bets.Race 6 is the Grade 1 Computaform Sprint over 1000m and I ride Heavens Girl who comes off a small break after a good latest win. She is a classy filly and this will tell us exactly how good she is, but I’m hoping for a decent run.I think my stable companion, Big Burn, could be the filly to beat. She is fast and classy and at these weights could run them off their feet. Real Gone Kid and Master Archie are the next horses who must be respected because both have winning claims. True To Life won extremely well last time and also has to be included.\ Race 7 is the headliner on the card, the Grade 1 TAB The Premier’s Champions Challenge, and I ride MK’s Pride who won a phenomenal race in the Grade 1 Wilgerbosdrift HF Oppenheimer Horse Chestnut Stakes last time. The obvious concern is whether he will stay but I feel he will because he relaxes well in his races and last time he hit the line full of running.I make him a massive runner and I’m expecting a huge run. We do, however, have Kommetdieding to beat. As mentioned in a previous article it takes a very special horse to win a Durban July and a Cape Town Met and he could have needed his first run in Joburg, so he has to be greatly respected. Sparkling Water ran a good race last week and must come into the reckoning. I’ll be surprised if these three horses don’t fill the first three positions. Race 8 is the Grade 2 Gerald Rosenberg Stakes over 2000m and Triple Tiara winner Rain In Holland looks very hard to beat. She is thrown in, and her main danger in Sprinkles has been beaten by her on numerous occasions so it’s hard to see her reversing the form. She sets the standard and in my opinion is a banker in all bets.Perfect Witness is the other filly to consider for back-end of the places. Race 9 is the Grade 3 The Citizen Gold Bowl over 3200m and I ride She’s A Cracker who ran disappointingly last time out and I’m going for her to bounce back and put in a decent effort. I think Nebraas still sets the standard even though he is worse off at the weight with his main danger and stable companion Black Thorn. He definitely stays and loves the trip and I think he will take all the beating. Afraad could be added into wider bets stepping up to this distance for the first time. Race 10 is the Jockeys v Work Riders Maiden Plate over 1160m and I ride Argo Alley who I make the horse to beat in this field. Mini Coop ran a lovely race on debut and is my main danger. Forgotten Time and Orgetorix also have winning claims. This is a great race and gives these hard-working work riders an opportunity to test their skills against the jockeys and I’m glad it’s been supported. BEST BET Race 1 No 1 Shoemaker VALUE BET Race 5: No 2 Sweet Future PICK 6 R120 Leg 1: 2, 7 Leg 2: 2, 7, 8 Leg 3: 4, 6, 9, 11, 15 Leg 4: 1, 2 Leg 5: 4 Leg 6: 1, 4