The Smiths have bound themselves to the chair that has made their lives quite tricky.  Jada Pinkett Smith, along with her mother, and daughter Willow Smith, have returned for a new season of Red Table Talk.  The family,  particularly Will Smith and Jada have taken some time off after the Oscars incident where the male actor slapped Chris Rock across the face over a bad joke.  Rock made a joke over Jada’s alopecia condition, after which Will was banned from attending the Oscars for the next 10 years.  He has apologised for his actions to the comedian, but Rock has yet to make a public statement.  On her Red Table Talk‘s first episode of season five which premiered on Wednesday, Jada had a discussion with award-winning artist Janelle Monae.  The clip addresses the elephant in the room as Jada holds out a message she wrote in black and white. It reads: “Considering all that has happened in the last few weeks, the Smith family has been focusing on deep healing.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. “Some of the discoveries around our healing will be shared at the table when the time calls.”  The statement further says their talk show will continue offering a platform for “healing testimonies”, powerful and inspiring guests.  Earlier this month it was reported Jada and Will agreed his actions on the Oscar stage were unacceptable and an overreaction.  According to a report by US Weekly, the actress felt her husband didn’t need to protect her after the joke. RELATED: ‘I’m not a woman who needs protecting’ says Jada Pinkett-Smith “She’s not one of these women that needs protecting. He didn’t need to do what he did, she didn’t need protecting. She’s not a wallflower. “She’s a strong woman, an opinionated woman and she can fight her own battles. But she will stand by him,” the source told the publication.