Africa is still struggling to expand its Covid-19 vaccine rollout, although the Covid-19 vaccine supplies have fortunately increased substantially.  According to the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) latest figures, a mere 11% of the continent’s population are fully vaccinated against the virus.  This vaccination rate needs to increase six times for the continent to meet its 70% target which was set for the middle of 2022, the WHO says. When it comes to South Africa and its vaccination rates, the aim (according to President Ramaphosa’s announcement in September 2021) was to vaccinate 70% of the country’s population by the end of the year. At this stage, the figure seems far-fetched, considering current statistics which state that just over 43.98% of South African adults are fully vaccinated. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Why? There are various reasons for this, including a lack of public education and the ability for people to access the vaccines in terms of affordability, transport and taking time off work. READ: Covid-19 update: 1,420 new cases in SA while UK’s infection rate hits record high 24 April marks the start of Africa Vaccination Week, which poses an opportunity to assess where the country is at in terms of Covid-19 vaccinations and where to go from here. When it comes to Fedhealth members, their Covid-19 vaccination figures for the end of February indicated that 83% of their adult members have had their first vaccination, with 70% of the scheme’s adults considered fully vaccinated.  The majority of these members received the Pfizer vaccine, with a small percentage receiving the J&J vaccine. When it comes to Covid-19-related testing, hospital admissions and deaths recorded, Fedhealth’s figures are as follows: Did you know that the Covid-19 vaccine can now be safely co-administered with the flu vaccine? You can therefore get both done at the same time if time and effort are your concern.  If you have been fully vaccinated for Covid-19, you are also eligible for a booster now. Anyone older than 12 years of age can be vaccinated against Covid-19. Considering that Africa Vaccination Week (and winter) is upon us, make it a priority to get your flu (and Covid-19) shot in time.  Most medical schemes offer their members one free flu vaccine per beneficiary as part of their annual benefit package.