Issues have been raised regarding the performance of the Haas VF-22, this year’s contender from the American owned F1 team. According to reports a number of teams are concerned over the seemingly more than acceptable close co-operation between Haas and Ferrari and whether the two are sharing more than normal information which has allowed Haas to take a giant step in performance. The fact the team opted to stop all development on the 2021 car and throw all efforts into this year’s new generation car, does not seem to be a significant factor worth considering to those behind the enquiry. Very vocal is Mercedes chief Toto Wolff, who is reported as saying. “Haas made a huge jump from being last, the way they were into being, has been solid and into Q3, I think, in Bahrain. So that’s an interesting step.” He continued: “For us, it’s a learning exercise, because as an organisation, we have 2 000 people and we have been successful in the past, and suddenly you’re fighting a much smaller team. So, they must have done a super job.” I am not sure what staff numbers have to do with F1 innovation. Many significant developments in numerous fields have come about due to the lateral thinking of an individual, not as a result of employee quantity. Quite the opposite can often result from that scenario. Let us not forget the adage that “a camel is a horse designed by a committee”. So now we have the situation where some feel the need to reform the current regulations to ensure customer teams are separate constructors, rather than a junior team of the major F1 players. Such collaboration has been practiced by Red Bull and Alpha Tauri, and Mercedes Benz with the Aston Martin, Racing Point, Force India teams. Apparently, Haas has a perfectly legal working relationship with Ferrari using the Ferrari ICE, gearbox and suspension, purchasing all parts permissible from Maranello and using the Ferrari wind tunnel. A situation rivals believe should not be allowed. One must ask, is it a legitimate issue or a question of sour grapes? There must have been a loud, collective sigh of relief from Formula One Management, Liberty Media and the organisers of the Miami Grand Prix last week. ALSO READ: FLOYD ON F1: Sterile designer tracks pose threat to classic circuits Miami-Dade Circuit Judge Alan Fine denied attempts by local homeowners to prevent the forthcoming race on the grounds of noise pollution. Although understanding the residents’ claim, Fine ruled he would not schedule a preliminary injunction due to the evidence presented by the homeowners regarding potential hearing loss, being “highly speculative” and “not based on any current Formula 1 noise information”. However the possibility of further court action is strong. Fine is reported as saying he expected a “full blown evidentiary hearing in four to five months”.  So Miami 2022 is safe, but what of future years? In the bid to improve the popularity of the sport in the US, surely creating animosity with those residing in the locale of a “destination city” makes no sense. To see the 2022 F1 calendar, click here.