The rock band, Spoegwolf‘s famous singer-songwriter, Danie du Toit who also goes by the name Reënwolf vowed to love and cherish his one and only, Melissa Bradshaw ’til death does them part this past weekend. They got married in Paarl, where he grew up and he told Netwerk24 that their wedding was something he had been dreaming of his whole life. Melissa – whom the Spoegwolf vocalist got engaged to in August 2021 – is a doctoral student and part-time lecturer in psychology at the University of Stellenbosch. She looked beautiful in an A-line ivory dress by the designer, Charlotte Francina with button detail in front and a low back, complemented by a simple, pearl beaded headband in her hair. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. “It’s all a dream,” Danie said.  “She was an incredibly beautiful bride. Melissa Bradshaw was the most beautiful girl in the world.” Their wedding reception was held in the church hall of the Paarl-based Dutch Reformed Church where his father – who married them – is also the priest.  Danie shared a picture of the preparations ahead of the special day, saying: “The church hall with bunting and fairy lights – because it’s wedding time!” READ: ‘Boer Soek ’n Vrou’ presenter, Marciel Hopkins walks down the aisle Pictures of him in an emerald green suit alongside his beautiful bride followed, showcasing the lovebirds walking through the streets of Paarl, and of course a couple of kisses between newlyweds. “We got married in Paarl,” the Spoegwolf singer wrote in another post shared on Instagram – a post with an Afrikaans caption that could most possibly become the lyrics to a song. It can be translated to: “…Our friends and family were there my aunt’s macarons covered everything in glitter kids played and there was music in my heart. The day after, we bid my brother farewell who is going to live overseas On our way home the vineyards are bronze I want to say something about all of us now riding off into the sunset The air is cool The me and you is now us All the holes in my heart were more place to feel All the beauty in you was the missing beauty for me All the scaredness and anxiety was actually longing and tonight, when we cried about everything once more suddenly there was glitter on your cheeks.” Spoegwolf has been making their mark in the entertainment industry, with their music and talent bringing them huge success.  In 2019, they became the first Afrikaans artist or band to reach the number one spot on Apple Music.  They released their first album, Gravity in 2012, which was followed by Electric Child EP (2013), Summer (2015), The dark tower (2017), Koma (2019), See (2020), Wind (2020), Groen (2021) and Silwer (2021). Spoegwolf will also soon be embarking on their very first overseas tour, with shows booked in Amsterdam in the Netherlands and Camden Town in the United Kingdom for August this year.