South African rugby fans, including coaches and players, have paid tribute to former Bulls and Springbok loose forward Pedrie Wannenburg, who died in a car crash in Houston, Texas late Friday. It is believed the car Wannenburg, 41, was driving was struck by another vehicle, allegedly driven by a 16-year-old who was fleeing from the police. Wannenburg’s one son, who along with other family members was in the car, is in a critical condition in hospital. The former Bulls loose forward, who played over 100 Super Rugby games and 20 Tests for the Boks, lived in the Texas area since 2017. He and former Lions and SA Junior Boks coach Eugene Eloff were involved in coaching the Austin Huns. Eloff said Saturday after hearing of the passing of Wannenburg: “I am shattered…have no words. Devastating news RIP wonderful man.” Ulster Rugby, for whom Wannenburg also played during a very successful career, paid tribute by saying they were “deeply saddened” to learn of the flanker’s passing. The Bulls, who won several Super Rugby and Currie Cup titles when Wannenburg was at his peak, also shared the sad news on their twitter account. In a statement they said: “The Bulls mourn the loss of a Loftus Versfeld legend and ex-Springbok, Pedrie Wannenburg, who sadly lost his life in a motor vehicle accident in the early hours of Saturday morning in the United States of America, where he was currently based. “The former loose forward had taken up coaching and was a mentor at Austin Elite in Texas at the time of his untimely death. The Bulls continue to pray for his son, who remains in a critical condition after being rushed to hospital.  Our thoughts and prayers go out to his wife, Evette, his children, family, former teammates and friends.” South African Rugby president Mark Alexander said: “Pedrie will be remembered as one of the first real versatile loose forwards who could play in any position in the back row and even though he played in only 20 Tests, his record in the colours of the Bulls, during a period where they dominated on all levels, is nearly unmatched. “After he finished his career in South Africa, he went on to make a big impact playing club rugby in Ireland, France and later the USA, and he started giving back to the game in a coaching capacity after he retired a few years ago.” Former Ireland loose forward Stephen Ferris, who played with Wannenburg at Ulster said: “Extremely sad news to wake up to this morning. Pedrie was a legend of the game and one of the nicest guys you could ever meet. Thoughts are with his wife Evette and his young kids.” Warren Brosnihan, also a former Bulls flanker, tweeted: “Prayers with Pedrie’s son and family.” In the centre of the photo above is Ettienne Botha, the star centre of the Bulls, who also tragically died in a car crash in 2006. Bryan Habana, who played with Wannenburg at the Bulls and Springboks, said the big loose forward would be sorely missed.