South African DJ Black Coffee touched down at the Or Tambo international airport on Tuesday night after his first Grammy win for his latest album, Subconsciously. The globally recognized DJ released his album on 5 February 2021. Nkosinathi Sizwe Maphumulo, professionally known as Black Coffee was awarded for the Best dance/ electronic album at the Grammy awards.  The award ceremony was held in Las Vegas, United States on Sunday, 3 April. On Tuesday evening, the airport was filled with cheers as the Grammy winner graced into the airport; as he was welcomed back to South Africa by the OR Tambo airport staff and fans. “I’m so overwhelmed right now. It is a crazy feeling when you sit alone and wonder if you died, would you know who loved you, what would people say about you. I’m experiencing that moment right now. I’m seeing the love, I’m seeing the support. Its like I’m watching from somewhere. This is such an amazing feeling. It is like magic. I’ve been talking about it on the plane. I wish I could get on a flight to fly around the continent and sprinkle it so everyone could feel this feeling,” he told TimesLive. He was also warmly welcomed by dignitaries such as Minister of sports, arts and culture Nathi Mthethwa; MEC for the department of sports, arts and culture Mbali Hlophe; and his music industry friends, Oscar Sibonginkosi Mdlongwa, famously known as Oskido. “When I saw him winning the Grammy, I looked back and said ‘if I turned him down and did not want to listen to his music; maybe we wouldn’t be here,” South African recording artist, DJ and record producer Oskido said. “Therefore, what he has done right now is massive for not only South Africa but for the African continent,” he continued. The Subconsciously producer expressed his gratitude to his kids and those who worked on this project with him, by sharing a post on his personal Instagram account with a long message.  “I remain in awe of God’s grace and mercy; because I did not prepare a speech for the ceremony, with this post I would like to extend my gratitude. I thank God for the gift of music, for blessing me with a beautiful healthy family, a wonderful group of friends and fans from all corners of the world,” he captioned the post.  He also thanked American artist Usher, Pharell, Diplo and “everyone else who worked on production and song writing to create this body of work.” “I also dedicate the award to every African child who has a dream of excelling in anything they envision; I want to affirm that it is all possible. #Godsveryown,” he wrote. ALSO READ: Enhle Mbali congratulates Black Coffee on his first Grammy win