South African food franchise Tasty Gallos is not only about the culinary satisfaction of its clients, but – in terms of its corporate social responsibility – has been ploughing back to the communities it serves.  According to Tasty Gallo’s Muhammed Gutta, the company has been involved in various community, youth and child projects, having recently launched the Gallo Care campaign – donating educational toys to children’s’ homes, creches and orphanages.  Like all the youth around the world, the young of South Africa are full of potential, motivation and talent, which can be a vital force for the nation to progress forward. The youth of the country are ambitious to make a future for themselves and the country through their skills but various challenges such as poverty, unemployment and lack of education form barriers in their dreams.  The aim, says Gutta, is to be involved in the development of children at the foundation phase in partnering with government “and other like-minded organisations” by imparting skills and educational tools to children from an early age.  “Similarly, the Gallo Care initiative is constantly aiming to work with old Age homes and orphanages across South Africa. Our programmes are aimed at uplifting communities across South Africa through welfare programmes – impacting on the lives of people of all age groups,” says Gutta.  He adds: “We aim to make a contribution in addressing challenges of food security by making an intervention in a fight against hunger and poverty through donations.”  ALSO READ: Siya Kolisi gives back to women who helped his family when they were starving Gutta is concerned about several challenges facing young people. He says: “I am concerned about growing challenges facing the youth. I firmly believe that the youth is the key to eradicating the country’s challenges if they are provided with the basic needs and a platform for growth.”  The food franchise in the country’s various cities creates employment opportunities for the youth.  “We hope to launch more welfare programmes by partnering with other organisations and companies in the future,” says Gutta.  -brians@citizen.co.za