The South African Weather Service (SAWS) has issued an orange level 6 warning for disruptive rain in parts of Limpopo in the early hours of Tuesday.  The rain will lead to localised flooding of roads and settlements, damage to property, infrastructure, loss of livestock over the escarpment and Lowveld.  This comes after the weather service’s yellow level 4 warning for disruptive rain over the eastern parts of the North-West, Gauteng, western Highveld of Mpumalanga, south-western Bushveld of Limpopo and the eastern Free State on Monday. Although there had been no incidents reported overnight in Gauteng, Johannesburg Emergency Services said they would remain on high alert in case they are called out to rescue anyone.    “So far, no major incidents have been reported throughout the city overnight. However, we are still encouraging our motorists out there to exercise caution while driving as most roads are wet and slippery. Motorists should also extend a safe following distance and try and avoid areas which might be flooded,” said spokesperson Robert Mulaudzi.  Western half of the Eastern Cape: Cloudy in the central and south eastern parts at first, otherwise partly cloudy and cool with light isolated showers and rain along the coast and adjacent interior west of Algoa Bay. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate north-westerly, becoming moderate to fresh south-westerly, but strong westerly in the evening. Eastern half of the Eastern Cape: Cloudy weather in places south of the escarpment in the morning and evening, otherwise partly cloudy and cool. Light rain is expected in places along the coast overnight. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate westerly, becoming southerly in the afternoon, but light easterly along the wild coast in the evening.  KwaZulu-Natal: Partly cloudy and warm but hot weather in the extreme north-east. Isolated afternoon and evening showers/rain expected along the coast and adjacent interior. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh north-easterly in the north of Richards Bay, otherwise moderate southerly to south-easterly. The expected UVB sunburn index: High