Former Cricket South Africa (CSA) Director of Cricket, Graeme Smith, has been cleared by two independent arbitrators of racism allegations against him, which emanated from CSA’s Social Justice and Nation-Building (SJN) process, CSA announced on Sunday evening. In December 2021, the SJN Ombudsman, Adv Dumisa Ntsebeza SC, delivered his report which made “tentative findings” regarding various persons, including Smith, but indicated that he was not in a position to make “definite findings” on allegations before him.  The Ombudsman therefore recommended that further formal processes take place to achieve finality on these issues. CSA duly followed these recommendations by initiating an arbitration process regarding Smith before two independent and well respected advocates, Adv Ngwako Maenetje SC and Adv Michael Bishop.  A full arbitration process took place, during which both CSA and Smith were legally represented. Witnesses were called and cross-examined by both sides and the findings and evidence from the SJN process were placed before the arbitrators. In the arbitration award, Adv Maenetje SC and Adv Bishop have determined that: The arbitration award directed CSA to pay Smith’s costs. The full arbitration award, which runs to 95 pages, will be available at www.cricket.co.za on Monday at 8am. Lawson Naidoo, Chair of the CSA Board, commented: “The manner in which these issues have been dealt with and resolved by the arbitration proceedings confirms CSA’s commitment to deal with the SJN issues in a manner that treats them with utmost seriousness but also ensures fairness, due process and finality.” Naidoo added: “Now that finality on these processes has been reached, it is appropriate to recognise the extraordinary contribution that Graeme has made to South African cricket, first as the longest-serving Test captain in cricket history and then as Director of Cricket from 2019 to 2022. His role as the DoC has been critical in rebuilding the Proteas Men’s team in particular and has laid a solid foundation for his successor.” Smith’s contract as the Director of Cricket ended, as per his  original contract term, at the end of March 2022 and CSA has publicly advertised the position. Naidoo commented: “We fully appreciate that after his time as the DoC, Graeme wants new challenges in the commercial and cricket worlds. He has a long career ahead of him and we very much hope that he will still work in the cricket world in appropriate capacities going forward.”