Birdwatchers will tell you that a minor claim to fame of Gqeberha is that all four species of South African Bunting can be found in the area, and they stick around all year long too. But while South Africa’s top-order batsmen were bunting the ball around St George’s Park on Friday, none of them were able to stay at the crease long enough to get past 70, which was the score made by captain and opening batsman Dean Elgar. Keegan Petersen (64) and Temba Bavuma (67) both batted with impressive class as well, and Ryan Rickelton made his way to 42 before falling to a reverse-sweep. It all amounted to a total of 278/5 after the Proteas had won the toss and elected to bat under heavily overcast skies on a greenish pitch. And Petersen said he still feels South Africa are ahead after the first day of the second Test against Bangladesh. ALSO READ: Solid opening day for Proteas against Bangladesh “I think it’s a decent score, although losing those two late wickets has levelled things out a bit. But I think we are still a bit ahead of the game. “It would have been nice to just be three down because then we would really have been in the driving seat. “We did well, it was a tricky pitch with a bit in it for the seamers, but we dealt with it well. But hundreds are just eluding us, but it’s not for the want of trying. “Hundreds would put us in even better positions, while making fifties and getting out kind of balances things out. With hundreds you really get ahead in the game,” Petersen said. One aspect of the South African batting that is working well is the new opening partnership between Elgar and Sarel Erwee, who may have only scored 24 on Friday, but that ensured a solid start with his 52-run stand with his skipper. Elgar is enjoying a tremendous series with half-centuries in every innings, and that has lifted him into second place on South Africa’s all-time run-scoring list against Bangladesh. The left-hander has 606 runs in eight innings at an average of 86.57, and has overtaken Hashim Amla (602 @ 66.88), with just Graeme Smith (743 @ 82.55) ahead of him. Arguably more impressively, Elgar is now the leading run-scorer in all Tests at the historic St George’s Park ground, going to 641 in 14 innings at 49.30, overtaking Jacques Kallis (617 @ 36.29) and AB de Villiers (591 @ 49.25). “Dean obviously leads from the front and has been extremely consistent,” Petersen said. “He’s leading properly with this young team. “He’s a hard leader and he expects us to be at our best all the time. We just try and follow him.”