The City of Johannesburg has not been conducting speed prosecutions or processing fines since June last year due to the absence of speed cameras, JMPD spokesperson Xolani Fihla has confirmed.  All automated and manual cameras are not working. Fihla told eNCA on Thursday that this was due to the City not having a service provider for speed equipment because of contractual obligations.  “The contract with the previous service provider ended on the 31st May last year and currently what I can tell you is that the contract is being evaluated and hopefully by July there should be a contract and a service provider so that we can resume with our speed enforcement,” Fihla told the channel.  As a result, the city has lost millions due to not collecting the fines. Fihla said Joburg used to make about R3 million a month before the speed cameras went out. Officers who were working within the speed unit have been deployed in the regions and other departments within the JMPD so there’s more visible policing, said Fihla. “Hopefully by July we should be having a new service provider.” The Automobile Association (AA) has called for an investigation to determine who should be held accountable for the “gross negligence”, and for disciplinary steps against the individual or individuals involved to commence urgently. ALSO READ: WATCH: JRA condemns destruction and theft of traffic lights infrastructure “We live in a country with one of the highest per capita road deaths in the world. Effective traffic law enforcement (along with proper prosecution of offenders) remains critical to dealing effectively with this situation. While the fact that the speed cameras aren’t working is bad enough, this ridiculous turn of events sends a message that the Johannesburg Metropolitan Police Department (JMPD) is not taking traffic law enforcement seriously,” said the AA. “Surely someone in the JMPD must carry the responsibility to flag these deadlines well in advance of their expiry dates with a view to either renewing the contracts or securing new suppliers. Instead, that process is only getting underway now which may result in even further delays in getting cameras operational again. It’s a totally ludicrous situation and the JMPD should hang its collective head in shame.”