Luxury sports car manufacturer Lamborghini has lifted the curtain on their new internal combustion-powered model, the Huracan Tecnica. Essentially a more civilised version of the Huracan STO unveiled two years ago, the Tecnica, likely to be one of the last if not the final iteration of the now eight-year-old Huracan, is said to bridge the gap between the conventional EVO and the STO, with the Raging Bull describing it as having been developed for drivers “seeking driving fun and lifestyle perfection on both road and track”. Externally, the changes from the STO are easy to spot in the eschewing of the GT3 racing-style rear wing in favour of the smaller design Lamborghini claims helps improve aerodynamics by 35% compared to the EVO’s arrangement. Though retaining the wider doors sills with integrated vents, as well as the rear diffuser, the rest of the changes are bespoke to the Tecnica and include the carbon fibre bonnet without vents, a new front bumper with the so-called side air curtains on the flanks, a new front splitter and vents on the front wings designed to improve brake cooling. ALSO READ: Last combustion engine only Lamborghini debuting in 2022 Riding on gloss black 20-inch Damiso diamond-cut alloy wheels wrapped in Bridgestone Potenza Sport tyres, the Tecnica also sports a revised rear facia made up of a new glass window, and hexagonal-shaped exhaust outlets, a redesigned bumper and a carbon fibre engine cover. In addition to the wing, the various aerodynamic changes, according to Lamborghini, not only aid downforce but have resulted in a drag reduction of 20%. Tipping the scales at 1 379 kg, 40 kg more than the STO but 10 kg less than the EVO, the Tecnica’s revisions underneath its revised skin include better cooling management for the carbon-ceramic stoppers, plus the inclusion of the rear-wheel steering system. As with its siblings, the Tecnica offers a choice of three driving modes; the default Strada, Sport and Corsa, but comes as standard with the Lamborghini Dinamica Veicolo Integrata or LDVI system featured on the all-wheel-drive Hurcan EVO. ALSO READ: Lamborghini Huracan Evo is pure old-school supercar nirvana Inside, the tweaks are more subtle in the fitting, optionally, of lightweight door cards, track optimised seatbelts and an assortment of colours and materials that now include Alcantara as per Lamborghini’s Ad Personam customer customisation program. Residing at the rear, the normally aspirated 5.2-litre V10 has been upgraded to the same spec as the STO, meaning outputs of 470kW/565Nm compared to the EVO’s 449kW/560Nm. Unlike the EVO though, the Tecnica won’t be offered with all-wheel-drive in the same mould as the STO. Drive power therefore goes to the rear wheels only through the seven-speed dual-clutch gearbox. Top speed is rated at the same 325 km/h as the EVO with the 0-100 km/h sprint taking 3.2 seconds. Going on sale later this year, pricing for the Tecnica remains unknown, but expect a small premium over that of the EVO. Availability for South Africa is yet to be confirmed.