The Cheetahs will be eager to make the most of the Bulls’ cancelled match against the Sharks by claiming a full house of points in their Currie Cup clash against Western Province at the Cape Town Stadium on Friday (kick-off 4:45pm). Due to the devastating rains that have lashed KwaZulu-Natal over the past week, the Bulls and Sharks game scheduled for Saturday was called off, leading to the game declared a draw and the sides sharing two points each. The Cheetahs thus have a great chance to get themselves to within one point of the table topping Bulls, with a game in hand, which would put them in a great position going into the business end of the competition. Despite languishing at sixth on the seven team table, Western Province have shown some better signs in their last few games and they will be eager to give the Cheetahs a run for their money in the match. The Cheetahs head into the game without influential flyhalf Siya Masuku, who was ruled out due to sickness, and will front up with Reinhardt Fortuin in the pivot position. “Siya got flu last week and we hoped he would be better by this week. He trained a bit on Monday but I pulled him out because he wasn’t looking well, so he was sent back to bed. But he will be ready for our next match against the Lions,” explained Cheetahs coach Hawies Fourie. “In saying that Reinhardt trained really well in Siya’s absence. He’s a good defender and a great attacking flyhalf. So I don’t think we will lose too much, especially on attack. “Siya’s got a very good kicking game which does make a difference, so it is a big loss not to have him in this game but we are excited to see how Reinhardt goes, as well as Brandon Thompson who comes in as cover on the bench.” The team however does get a massive boost in the return of wing Rosko Specman, who has fully recovered from concussion symptoms he suffered against the same team almost a month ago, while Cohen Jasper moves from wing to fullback to replace the injured Clayton Blometjies. Other changes to the side see rotational switches with Jeandre Rudolph coming in at eight and Louis van der Westhuizen at two, with Mihalali Mosi and Marnus van der Merwe dropping to the bench respectively. Prop Alulutho Tshakweni then also comes in, with Schalk Ferreira dropping out of the match 23, while fellow prop Aranos Coetzee will make his 100th appearance for the Cheetahs in the match. The home side by contrast have made just one change to their starting 15 from their last game against the Bulls, with experienced prop Ali Vermaak coming in for Kwenzo Blose who drops to the  bench. Western Province coach Jerome Paarwater is looking forward to the match and hopes that the continuity in selection will give his side a boost. “We have got some good continuity in our selection, so hopefully we will see ssome growth in those combinations,” said Paarwater.