The Proteas’ recently announced limited overs tour to India is the perfect opportunity to blood some exciting young talent ahead of their three format tour to England from July to September and T20 World Cup in Australia in October and November. The Proteas will face India in five T20 matches from the 9-19 June, which gives them a chance to bring players such as 18-year-old Dewald Brevis and 21-year-old Tristan Stubbs into the international fold. Brevis has kicked on from a brilliant showing at the U19 World Cup earlier this year and impressed on his senior debut in the CSA T20 competition. He is currently putting in some eye-catching displays for the Mumbai Indians at the IPL and he will bring some much needed X-factor to the SA team. ALSO READ: Rising star Dewald Brevis: A beaming light on the Proteas radar Stubbs burst onto the scene this season with some brutal batting performances in the CSA T20 competition and he now has a chance to impress for the SA A team in their tour of Zimbabwe, with him included in the T20 side for their five match T20 series from the 2-10 May. If Stubbs can back up his franchise level performances against Zimbabwe, he will surely be in serious consideration for the T20 tour to India. CSA CEO Pholetsi Moseki explained that this is an important series to build up momentum ahead of some big events in the coming year. “We are excited to add these fixtures to the Proteas men’s itinerary for the season. It is a massive white-ball season for our team, with an ICC Men’s T20 World Cup in Australia later this year and the ICC World Cup taking place in India next year,” said Moseki. “It goes without saying that game time is vital for our team as they look to get their combinations right. “We look forward to supporting our men in a few weeks’ time in what promises to be an explosive and highly competitive series.” Fixtures: 9th June: 1st T20I – Delhi 12th June: 2nd T20I – Cuttack 14th June: 3rd T20I – Vizag 17th June: 4th T20I – Rajkot 19th June: 5th T20I – Bengaluru