Announced last year as making a potential comeback with electrification, Alfa Romeo boss, Jean-Philippe Imparato, has provided the biggest hint of a revival of the MiTo. Dropped from Alfa Romeo’s line-up three years ago after its Brand Head for Europe, Africa and the Middle East, Roberta Zerbi, told Britain’s Autocarthat the three-door bodystyle had become impractical, a subsequent report by France’s L’Automobilealleged that the MiTo could return as early as 2023 with the commencing of sales the next year. Although not confirming the MiTo by name, Imparato, in conversation with Autocar, remarked that Alfa Romeo will launch an all-new model every year until 2030 with those next expected being the Brennero small SUV in 2024 and a new flagship SUV rumoured to be called Costello in 2027. According to the publication, the MiTo will be developed from the start as an electric vehicle and ride on the same adapted EMP1 platform as the Peugeot e-208 and Opel Corsa-e instead of the electrically focused Stellantis STLA architectures due in 2023. “The Mito was a three-door car, but if it had had five doors, the market would have been so much bigger. The next step in the path to electrification is full electric, and compact cars blend well [with that] and use the car that’s most suitable to your needs,” Alfa Romeo UK Managing Director, Damien Dally, told the publication. ALSO READ: Coming back? Alfa Romeo MiTo rumoured for 2023 return In a related development, Imparato also confirmed that the replacement for the Giulia won’t go the SUV route despite the planned unveiling of the Costello that will sit above the Stelvio and the Tonale. “We are not abandoning the Giulia. There will be a future Giulia, and it will be an electric-only model,” the former Peugeot executive told Automotive News Europe. Launched in 2015 as Alfa Romeo’s first rear-wheel-drive sedan since the 75 ended production in 1992, the unveiling of the Giulia’s replacement remains unknown, however, reports have alleged it will receive a second round of updates, the last having taken place three years ago, within the next few months before being replaced outright. What is certain is that the “second generation” will bow before 2027, the year Alfa Romeo becomes a wholly electric marque, with the STLA Medium platform set to provide the base. Expect more details to be revealed as the year carries on.