Gauteng residents will soon get to soak up the last of the warm sunshine in Johannesburg this weekend as one of the most glamorous polo events, the second Standard Bank Joburg Polo in the Park tournament returns. First wowing attendees in 2019, follow-up events for the Joburg Polo in the Park did not occur due to the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. However, now that the worst seems to be over, the glitz and glamour is back for the lavish event set in the gigantic residential estate of Steyn City, located in the northern suburbs. The Citizen was invited to an exclusive media presentation at Steyn City on 26 April for the event which will be hosted and supported by a partnership between Standard Bank, Steyn City and African Deluxe Company.  Organisers promise an exciting combination of sport, fashion and luxury. With just a limited number of tickets left, about 80% of tickets have been sold, and attendees are expected to be treated to gourmet food, beautifully designed lounges, and first-class African entertainment. Kabelo Makeke, head of consumer and HNW Clients South Africa said when he thinks of polo, for him it brings together “unique characters” such as fans of the sport, and fashionistas, “we see it as something cultural.” Adding that the occasion it is great for newcomers looking to experience the “sport of kings” for the first time.  This year the event will be hosted by Minnie Dlamini as the attention on the red carpet is at the highest it’s ever been in some time.  Commentators on social media the “fashion experts” are expecting our celebrities to come in the best-sophisticated polo fits. The polo will be done in a different format as Joburg Polo in the Park will occur on a smaller field than a traditional one.  The games will also have only three players instead of four players playing for each team and the horseback riders will use an inflatable ball instead of the hardball used in traditional matches.  The purpose of this is to allow attendees to get as close to the game as possible. Following the successful model of the Val de Vie group in the Western Cape, Steyn City’s ultra living has received the highest recognition such as being the first residential estate in Southern Africa to have its helistop and voted one of the top lifestyle residential estates in the world by New World Wealth.  Tickets to Joburg Polo in the Park are available, premium lounge offers prime views, a gourmet three-course lunch, butler service, views of the polo field, and an open bar, prices start from R3 500 per person Group tickets with bottle service are available from R20 000, tickets are available on Ticketpro.