The agricultural sector, specifically in Gauteng and North West, said the alarming spread of the foot-and-mouth (FMD) disease can be curbed. The Department of Agriculture had warned livestock farmers last week in Gauteng about an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in the Randfontein area. The department had implemented a safety net which was supposed to prevent any further outbreak but now appears to be full of holes. MP and chief spokesperson of agriculture for the Freedom Front Plus (FF+), Tammy Breedt, said things can be rectified. ALSO READ: Gauteng agriculture warns of foot-and-mouth disease outbreak “The outbreak of this disease in Gauteng and the North West can most probably be attributed to the illegal transport of infected animals from the eastern parts of the country, where preventative measures and the required zone fences are not in place,” said Breedt. Breedt said an immediate consequence of the outbreak was that China placed a ban on the import of all cloven-hooved animals and their products. South Africa exports about 80% of its wool to China which amounts to R4.8 billion, citing that it is a further jab at the economy that is recovering from the effects of Covid-19. “By now, the South African agricultural community probably feels like it has been hit by the Biblical plagues as it has to fight off foot-and-mouth disease. “Bluetongue, African swine flu, bird flu, locust, fly and mosquito plagues, fires, a prolonged drought and subsequent floods which caused further devastation and destruction,” Breedt added. During the initial FMD outbreak in 2019, strict control measures were put in place and funds earmarked for the safe zones to ensure that the infection does not spread. “Although South Africa’s national government fulfils an oversight role over animal health, the associated responsibilities have been devolved to the provincial departments, which must see to it that the measures are enforced and that the necessary fences are maintained,” Breedt said. Latest outbreak indicates that this is not happening which indicates that provinces need state veterinarians to monitor the disease. “Incompetence, mismanagement and corruption, play a significant role in the current problems. For example, in the first three quarters of the previous financial year, the basically insolvent Agricultural Research Council (ARC) transferred approximately R400 million back to provinces for combating foot-and-mouth disease. “After it had initially not been used with the previous outbreak in 2019, South Africa lost its international status with the World Organisation for Animal Health, which dealt a severe blow to agriculture and the livestock industry in particular,” Breedt said. The FF Plus said it will keep engaging with the national department to ensure that measures that are already in place are enforced and that the necessary maintenance is performed on all zone fences. ALSO READ:Agriculture dept confirms active Foot and Mouth disease cases in NW, Limpopo and KZN