In what is an effective preview of the incoming C63, Mercedes-AMG has unveiled its first performance four-cylinder C-Class in the shape of the new C43. Replacing the V6 engine W205 C43, the new W206 C43, which also serves as the first sporting four-cylinder C-Class since arguably the W202 C230 Kompressor and to an extent, the iconic Cosworth powered 190E 2.3 and later 2.5, differs comparatively little externally from models fitted with the AMG Line package as the main focus has been underneath the bonnet. In terms of aesthetics, the C43 gets a restrainedly designed version of the Panamericana grille, standard 18-inch AMG alloy wheels with 19 or 20-inches being optional, the AMG wing front apron, chrome door sills, a subtle boot lid spoiler in the case of the sedan, quad-exhaust outlets and “Turbo Electrified” badges on the front wings. Inside, AMG readouts and graphics adorn the 12.3-inch digital instrument cluster and the 11.7-inch portrait-style MBUX infotainment system, with additional model-specific tweaks being a Nappa leather-trimmed AMG Performance steering wheel affixed with alloy paddles, AMG seats finished in Artico man-made leathers, real leather or Alcantara, red stitching on the seatbelt and the seats, AMG floor mats, AMG branded illuminated door sills and alloy pedals. ALSO READ: New Mercedes-Benz C-Class an impressive return to form Unsurprisingly, the first AMG fettled W206 C-Class has undergone extensive revisions underneath it skin, namely the standard fitting of the AMG Performance exhaust system and the AMG Ride Control suspension, whose adaptive dampers can be altered via three settings; Comfort, Sport and Sport+. As well as the AMG Dynamic Select system that consists of six modes; Slippery, Comfort, Sport, Sport+ and Individual, the C43 receives the AMG rear axle steering system, plus upgraded brakes in the form of a four-piston ventilated and perforated caliper setup at the front and single at the rear. The all steel discs measure 370 mm and 320 mm respectively. Taking centre stage is the C43’s new heart, which combines the 2.0-litre M139 petrol engine used in the A45 S and recently revealed SL 43, with a 48-volt mild-hybrid system as well as an electrically driven turbocharger, said to have been influenced by the three-pointed star’s Formula 1 exploits. Mated to the nine-speed MCT transmission that incorporates launch control, the power unit produces 300kW/500Nm, a 13 kW uptake on the previous C43’s 3.0-litre turbo V6, though torque decreases by 20 Nm. As per the EQ Boost mild-hybrid system, an additional 10 kW is generated for short spells.  While limited to 250 km/h, the C43 will get from 0-100 km/h in 4.6 seconds with the optional AMG Driver’s Package upping the V-max to 265 km/h without impacting on the benchmark sprint time. More than likely to become available in South Africa later this year despite an official announcement being outstanding, expect a starting price of around R1.1-million with production set to take place at Benz’s East London Plant in the Eastern Cape.