As part of the annual shake-up of radio programming, youth station YFM has brought some new voices into the fold.  One of these voices is actor and TV presenter Teboho “Caddy” Tsotetsi. The Citizen recently had a quick chat with the Legacy actor in between filming scenes for the show to pick his brain about his plans for his new show.  Caddy has been tapped to host Fresh by Caddy – a show that will air every Saturday between 2 pm to 6 pm. If Caddy looks familiar, you may know him for his role as Sanele on M-Net’s Legacy where he plays a buttoned-up junior business analyst.  While he’s just as “fresh” in real life, Caddy dresses nothing like his on-screen character. His looks are always right on-trend; urban, colourful and uniquely styled in a way that is bound to become synonymous with his brand. “Fresh” as it relates to urban and pop culture and hip hop as a genre is exactly the right word to use to describe Caddy so it’s only right that, that would feature in the name for his new show.“I’ve always wanted to join the freshest radio station in South Africa and look forward to covering what’s trending in street culture, music and fashion,” said the 2021 GQ’s best-dressed winner. “This is my first radio gig but my first internship during my college days was at Metro,” explained the radio host in an interview with The Citizen.  In addition to his desire to take this step in his career, he attributes the decision to take this step to a past, an unnamed mentor who he said advised him to try everything and not be too hung up on the fact that he may “fail.” Regarding what he plans to bring to his show, Caddy simply said listeners can expect  “interesting conversations and great music.” “They can expect anything I’m from the kasi but I have a bit of bougieness in me,” he added.  He also has big dreams for his show and listed the likes of Kanye West, Chris Brown, Will Smith and Trevor Noah on his list of people he would love to interview for Fresh By Caddy on YFM.  The Fresh by Caddy show airs on YFM (99.2) every Saturday between 2 pm and 6 pm. For more on YFM’s programming lineup, click here.