The last four members of a team that went to northeast DR Congo to mediate with an armed group who then took them hostage are now free, their spokesman said Tuesday. The eight-member team had travelled to Ituri province in mid-February with the government’s blessing, seeking to persuade an armed group called CODECO to end a bloody campaign of ethnic violence. But the mediators – who included three former warlords – were themselves seized by CODECO, who accused the army of using the reconciliation trip as a cover to shell their positions. One hostage was released on 21 March and three others, including the team’s driver, on 4 April. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. On Tuesday, Pitchout Mbodina Iribi, a spokesman for the mediators, said “all the remaining members of the delegation… have been released.” But another source within his organisation, speaking on condition of anonymity, told AFP that the final four had “escaped” from their captors and had arrived in the provincial capital Bunia early Tuesday. The team sent to meet CODECO included former warlords Thomas Lubanga, Germain Katanga and Floribert Ndjabu, with an escort that included Congolese army colonels. Lubanga and Katanga respectively served 14- and 12-year prison sentences handed down by the International Criminal Court (ICC) for crimes committed in Ituri in the early 2000s. Ndjabu was jailed for 15 years over the killing of nine UN peacekeepers. Their mediation mission had been approved by President Felix Tshisekedi, who is struggling with a surge of violence by armed groups in Ituri and neighbouring North Kivu. CODECO – the name for the Cooperative for the Development of the Congo – is a political-religious sect that claims to represent the interests of the Lendu ethnic group. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The Lendu and Hema communities have a long-standing feud that led to thousands of deaths between 1999 and 2003 before intervention by a European peacekeeping force. Violence then resumed in 2017, blamed on the emergence of CODECO. CODECO attacks since then have caused hundreds of deaths and prompted more than 1.5 million people to flee their homes, while half of the region’s population faces food insecurity, according to the Danish Refugee Council. The group used the detention of the mediators to demand the release of CODECO fighters and members of the Lendu community who had been “arbitrarily arrested.” They also called for an end to army operations against them and the end to a so-called state of siege in which civilian officials in the two troubled provinces have been replaced by armed officers. The last four of the team to recover their freedom were Lubanga and Ndjabu, and two army colonels, Justin and Desire Lobho. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.