Mamelodi Sundowns co-head coach Rulani Mokwena says he is keen that the DStv Premiership does not become uncompetitive for Masandawana. ALSO READ: Five-in-a-row! Sundowns seal another Premiership titleWhenever the German Bundesliga and French League 1 kick-off, Bayern Munich and Paris Saint Germain are always favorites to win their respective leagues and most of the time, they wrap up the championship with a lot of games to spare. That is the culture that Mamelodi Sundowns have created in winning five Premiership titles on the spin, the latest sealed with four games to spare after a goalless draw with Cape Town City on Wednesday.In Germany, Bayern have claimed 10 straight titles while PSG have won eight of the last 10. These leagues have been mocked as ‘farmers leagues’ as there is very little competition to challenge for league honours. Gone are the days where the torch of dominance was passed around between Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates – the Soweto giants have a combined eight league titles in the Premier Soccer League era, in comparison to Masandawana’s 12 crowns. Mokwena says he would not want to see the DStv Premiership being turned into a one-team show.“To avoid that type of situation, you need strong rivals and the reality is that you look at the story of Bayern, PSG and how they win their titles. Every time they have done very well in the Uefa Champions League is when they have had very strong rivals in the domestic league,” said Mokwena.“Borussia Dortmund, at some point, gave them a good run for their money. PSG got to the Champions League final in the season where Lille were stronger than them. Having strong rivals helped them to build a team based on perfection and high standards,” said Mokwena. Mokwena added: “That responsibility to make sure that there are stronger rivals in the DStv Premiership is unfortunately not ours. We have potential to have strong rivals. Some of the teams have quality, there are players who can play abroad. With the national team selection, some players get called up and they come from a lot of the clubs who have the responsibility to try to be the rivals for Sundowns. It is a difficult responsibility and I am glad it is not our responsibility.”    Sundowns were knocked out of this season’s Champions League, stunned at the quarterfinal stage by Petro Atletico, but they do still have a trophy to play for, with a chance to complete a domestic treble if they can win the Nedbank Cup. Masandawana take on Royal AM tomorrow in the semifinals, and will hope to seal a place in the final against either Tshakhuma FC or Marumo Gallants, who meet today in a Limpopo derby.