Tonight saw the initial ten Boer Soek ’n Vrou farmers – some with partners and others still single – celebrate the success of yet another season of the famous matchmaker series, of which a 15th season has just been confirmed for January 2023. The 14th season was filled with much laughter and some tears as the farmers went searching for love and women across the country put themselves forward to meet the men who might just have been the men of their dreams. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Marciel Hopkins, who has just been announced the presenter for the next season took the lead in the season’s finale, asking all kinds of questions about the farmers and their partners’ experiences through the process. As with anything in life, the season came with its challenges, but also with a lot of lessons learned.  For Johan, distance was a big downfall as he was not able to spend ample time getting to know Arina better, which lead to them taking a step back, ending off the season as friends.  He admitted, though that the process taught him to open up more when it comes to his feelings. Although they were still together at the reunion, Nelis and Esmerélda are also now just friends.  This follows their conversation with Marciel in which Nelis mentioned that phone reception on the farm is not great and that Esmerélda often got frustrated with him when things got a bit busy on the farm. Tyson and Alri attended the reunion as a couple and at that stage (the episode was filmed in November last year) they had been a couple for almost a month.  They are still together and say that Boer Soek ’n Vrou has a way of fast-tracking the dating scene.  Courting time was cut down to the bare minimum and they just had to wing it from the get-go.  Luckily, the nitty-gritty parts of falling in love were already dealt with in the initial phases of the process, which means it’s all been discussed already, paving the way going forward. Tyson and Alri says that time together on the farm is effortless. “It just flows.”  They say they laugh a lot, especially about the language gap between them and Alri’s naps on the tractor. Petré and Lourize are also still together and although the 1000km distance is tough, they’re making it work.  Between the holiday weekend and the reunion, the two saw each other almost every second weekend.  Marciel wanted to know if Petré was happy that he took on the Boer Soek ’n Vrou process “boots and all” and he merely responded: “The proof is in the pudding.” READ: ‘Boer Soek ’n Vrou’ – The Tankwa Karoo was made for romance Farmers from earlier in the season were also at the reunion.  Mary-loo, the only female farmer in the top 10 shared that she had a lunch date with one of the two guys that Marciel had her phone and that they’ve been chatting on Whatsapp since.  She invited him to the reunion, but he was due to start harvesting the next day and was therefore not able to join her. Willem was also there and told Marciel that Boer Soek ’n Vrou gave him more self-confidence for the dating scene.  “I learned a lot about myself.” Albertus brought a blonde farmgirl to the reunion, saying that he counts the sleeps until her next visit, but things have since gone South and they are now just friends. While Gerhard got lost in the city in an attempt to meet one of the girls who had written a letter to him, Carel has also met someone and they seem to be hitting it off. Apart from the funny bloopers at the end of the final episode, the farmers and their partners’ comments to Marciel’s final questions also rounded things off, proving that the series is here to stay. Boer Soek ’n Vrou Season 15 will be broadcast on kykNET in January 2023, with Marciel Hopkins who has just been announced the presenter once again. If you’re a farmer who would like to enter for the next season of Boer Soek ’n Vrou, this is your chance.  Visit www.kyknet.tv and enter online or download the entry form from the website.  You can also phone the producers, Wolflight on 079 335 5137 or e-mail them on boer@wolflightsa.com. Your entry form needs to be accompanied by photos and a copy of your ID.  You need to be unmarried and older than 21. Entries close at midnight on 5 May 2022. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.