Former Miss South Africa, television presenter and motivational speaker, Melinda Bam and her husband, Adriaan Bergh are “back in paradise” and they both look (and clearly feel) better than ever. The travelling couple has been celebrating life, sharing special memories on Malaidhoo Island in the Maldives and making silly jokes with what the beauty queen calls “terrible paradise pun.” This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. “Tropic like it’s hot,” she writes in a caption of her and her hubby laughing into the camera with a tropical background worth swooning over.  “Yes, I had to do at least one terrible paradise pun… Aloha, beaches! Stop. Water you doing? Nooo. I’m not shore… Gives up.” Melinda Bam clearly feels fabulous when the dress code is swimwear.  “This place brings out the best and most questionable in me,” she writes in a caption of her flashing her bum in a white cozzie.  “All he said was ‘smile’ and I instantaneously flashed him with both a grin and my bum. I guess that’s what happens when you live in a swimsuit for two weeks.” Apart from spotting the most beautiful sea life, Melinda and Adriaan have also been exploring the island and taking in its magnificently white beaches and turquoise waters.  “Somehow every time I dream of this place, the turquoise water isn’t as blue, the beaches aren’t as white and the palm trees aren’t as soothing as it is in real life,” she captions two pictures of her looking out over the ocean in a blue bikini. “This is just one magical place.” READ: Five times Melinda Bam’s outfit had summer written all over it And what is a Maldives holiday without a SUP experience? “At my happiest, just you and me, on a paddle board or falling off, whether I lose the race or fight about the finish line, I choose you over and over, side by side,” Melinda Bam writes in a post dedicated to Adriaan, her favourite SUP buddy.  “Crazy about you, my husband.” Apart from looking and feeling fabulous, the couple is clearly very much in love too.  Makes one wonder if they could perhaps be celebrating something else in addition to life, love and being back in paradise…