This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Orlando Pirates’ 1-0 DStv Premiership win over Sekhukhune United at Ellis Park Stadium on Wednesday was very vital, says Bucs co-coach Mandla Ncikazi. The Bucs mentor believes the win puts them on course to fulfil their mission of finishing the season in second spot on the log, especially if they record another win in their next game against Baroka FC on 12th April at the Peter Mokaba Stadium. READ ALSO: Ethan Brooks not putting his hand up in training, says Galaxy coach Pirates are fifth on the log standings with 38 points after 24 games, with only five points separating them and second placed Royal AM, but there is still Cape Town City and Kaizer Chiefs , who are level on 39 points occupying fourth and third places respectively on the table, who are also fighting for a runners-up position. “Highly important (the win), the two games, this match and the one against Baroka puts us back in the fight for second position. Let’s hope that other teams drop points in the process, but let’s just control our destiny. We just have to win our games and see what happens after that,” said Ncikazi. “I am just happy for the team, but not the best conditions to play football in, I am just happy that we could battle. But, I say the team that deserves to win was us, we missed a penalty and had small opportunities that were there, I think our team deserves to win. So, the journey continues, let’s see where it takes us.” Pirates goal came late in the game courtesy of Fortune Makaringe, and Ncikazi reveals that he thought the game will end in a goalless draw, with Deon Hotto having had his spot-kick saved. “I was thinking, is this a situation where you create chances and you miss a penalty and you don’t win a match and play an unnecessary draw? But God being and the football gods were on our side. I am just happy with the performance the players gave , I am just proud of everyone around the team. We are still on course with our objective, even though it was not our first objective, let’s continue with it. I am proud of this team.”