The South African Weather Service (SAWS) has issued a yellow level 2 warning for severe thunderstorms with excessive lightning and heavy downpours over the eastern parts of the Eastern Cape and southern KwaZulu-Natal on Saturday. The weather service has warned residents to watch out for localised flooding of susceptible roads, bridges and settlements as well as dangerous driving conditions.  Gauteng: Partly cloudy and warm with isolated showers and thundershowers in the extreme south. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme. Mpumalanga: Fine and warm, but partly cloudy in the southern parts with isolated showers and thundershowers. Limpopo: Fine and warm, becoming partly cloudy in the south and western parts from the afternoon. North West: Partly cloudy and warm with scattered showers and thundershowers in the west and southern parts, otherwise isolated, except in the north-east. Free State: Partly cloudy and warm, with scattered showers and thundershowers, but isolated in the north-east. Northern Cape: Partly cloudy and warm to hot, with isolated to scattered showers and thundershowers in the east, otherwise fine and cool to warm. Cloudy along the coast in the morning, with moderate to fresh south to south-easterly, becoming strong in the afternoon. Western Cape: Fine in the west otherwise cloudy to partly cloudy and cool to warm with light rain along the south coast and the adjacent interior. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong southerly tosouth-easterly. The expected UVB sunburn index: Very High ALSO READ: Level 2 warning: Severe thunderstorms with possible hail expected in parts of EC Western half of the Eastern Cape: Cloudy and cool with isolated showers and thundershowers but scattered in the north east. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate south-westerly, becoming easterly by late morning. Eastern half of the Eastern Cape: Cloudy and cool with scattered showers and thundershowers but widespread in the east. The wind along the coast will be light south-westerly becoming easterly from afternoon. KwaZulu-Natal: Morning fog over the interior, otherwise partly cloudy and warm, but cool in the south-west. It will become cloudy with scattered showers and thundershowers. The wind along the coast will be moderate easterly to north-easterly in the extreme north, but moderate easterly to south-easterly in the south. The expected UVB sunburn index: Moderate