While their marriage appeared to be filled with glitz and glamour, Hannon Bothma and his husband, Julius Swart’s relationship of thirty years is coming to a drama-filled crumbling end. In February, The Citizen reported that the couple had released a statement about their decision to file for divorce.  According to an in-depth interview with Glam Guru Hannon in Huisgenoot, the couple have yet to file papers, though. But that doesn’t mean the situation comes without its drama. In fact, it comes with a lot more than you might think. The one moment, Hannon and Julius were planning a 30-year anniversary party for 300 guests and the next, Julius had an assault charge against Hannon and Hannon had a court order against Julius, restricting him from accessing their bedroom and their shared walk-in closet.  (According to Rapport‘s source, Hannon wants to ask the court to restrict Julius from wearing Hannon’s shoes and to allow Hannon to have first choice with regards to outfits they might want to wear on the same day). According to Hannon’s interview with Huisgenoot, Julius had been acting strange since January, while Julius told Rapport that he is “completely okay” and that he is himself again for the first time in years. Hannon told Huisgenoot that Julius would come home late and go out with people Hannon did not know. He also noticed messages on Julius’ phone which indicated that Julius was cheating.  They later decided to see a marriage councillor, but during this time, Hannon says Julius cheated on him again – this time in their own home – which broke him.  Rapport reports that Hannon came across numerous gay matchmaking apps on Julius’ phone on which Julius apparently flirted with other men. “I confronted him, and he confessed about the man in our home. I was broken. In my life I have never looked at another man; Julius was always the only one. Yet I had to see how the man I love changed into someone I don’t know – how he starts smoking and hanging out in nightclubs; how he stays away from home for days. And those offensive words of him: He enjoys his freedom, and he doesn’t want to give it up,” Hannon told Huisgenoot. Hannon claims to have bumped Julius in a fight that became physical on 3 April this year, after Julius had been provoking him.  “It was only when he lit a cigarette in our bedroom that I bumped him. My watch hit his forehead and I regretted it immediately, because I am not a violent person,” he told Huisgenoot. A friend of Julius told Rapport that it was more than just a bump.  “We helped Julius pack a bag and took him to the Bramley police station, where they helped him to calm down and gave him a J88 (forensic examination) form to take to the Morningside Clinic, where a doctor assisted him. The wound wouldn’t stop bleeding and they put a pressure bandage around his head. The doctor said it was a laceration of 3cm, the skin burst open, so it was all but a bump.” The friend also told Rapport that Julius has been through a tough time.  He apparently lost a lot of weight and is struggling to eat.  The source also claims that Hannon has always been very manipulative when it came to Julius.  “I’ve known them for years and Hannon often shot down Julius’ ideas. He constantly let Julius doubt himself; Julius even had to dress like Hannon wanted.” In addition to all this and the fact that the couple is now literally fighting over clothes and shoes in their shared walk-in closet, Huisgenoot has now published a photo of Julius, which he apparently distributed himself on 19 January, in which part of his genitals show. According to Rapport, a source said that the picture, which was captioned: “Signs of getting older,” was an ode to a joke between Hannon and Julius from the days when Hannon was a hairdresser in Cape Town. The source told Rapport that “an old man who was a client of Hannon’s’ genitals partly hung out of his shorts, and Julius and Hannon joked about it a lot then.” Julius apparently posted the picture as a joke to Hannon, but Hannon was upset about it and told Julius to take it down, which he did. The plot thickens as blaming and shaming surface from both sides. In a statement to Rapport, Hannon said: “For 30 years we were so happy and we always tried to be the most beautiful example for many couples. Our house was always a place where love and camaraderie was at the order of the day. It is sad if one person wants to walk his own way and the other can just watch. It is a sad story, but hopefully, time will heal many wounds. I’ve never received so much support from people and amidst the sadness, I still feel blessed.”