The first game of the post-Stuart Baxter era ended in defeat for Kaizer Chiefs on Saturday evening, as Deano Van Rooyen’s first half strike was enough for Stellenbosch FC to complete a DStv Premiership double over Amakhosi. It was also a first league loss for Arthur Zwane and Dillon Sheppard as Chiefs caretaker-coaches, with the pair winning both their Premiership matches following the sacking of Gavin Hunt last season. A healthy crowd packed into Danie Craven Stadium to usher in the post-Baxter era, and Zwane and Sheppard also made some changes to the starting line-up. Samir Nurkovic was dropped to the bench with Leonardo Castro coming into the attack alongside Keagan Dolly and Khama Billiat, another reunion of the ‘CBD’ that did so well at Mamelodi Sundowns. Njabulo Ngcobo, meanwhile, not really trusted by Baxter in defence, came into the heart of a Chiefs back four, while Happy Mashiane was picked in central midfield and attacking midfielder Sabelo Radebe got his first ever DStv Premiership start. Billiat, Dolly, and Castro did link well at times, but it was Stellenbosch’s front three of Judas Moseamedi, Deano Van Rooyen and Ashley Du Preez that looked more potent, and Steve Barker’s side stunned the visitors by taking the lead in the 20th minute. Moseamedi played a delightful through ball for Van Rooyen whose shot squirmed under Brandon Petersen’s body and into the net. Some lovely touches from Dolly and Castro then saw the former swing in a cross that just evaded the head of the Colombian striker. Stellies, however, might have doubled their lead when Du Preez released Moseamedi, but he put his shot inches wide. Chiefs were dominating possession but it was the home side who still looked more likely to score on the break. Moseamedi ought to have done exactly that five minutes into the second half as he burst clear of the Chiefs defence, but Petersen narrowed the angle and blocked the striker’s effort. Stellenbosch were soon forced to replace Moseamedi as he went off injured and Barker put on Solly Khunyedi in his place. Chiefs gave a first appearance of the season to Dumisani Zuma, and Zwane and Sheppard then brought on Kgaogelo Sekgota and Nkosingiphile Ngcobo, in an attempt to find a way through the hosts. Sekgota did make some lively runs, winning one free kick and then whipping in a cross that Zuma just couldn’t get on the end of. Zuma then cut in from the right and hit a low shot that drew a comfortable near post save from Sage Stephens. Stellenbosch, however, reinforced with the experience of Robyn Johannes off the bench, held firm to jump level on points with Chiefs and Orlando Pirates in the table.