Kaizer Chiefs supporters will have to draw on plenty of patience if Arthur Zwane is to get their team back to a trophy-winning level, or at least one that is competitive. This comes after Amakhosi gave a performance that can be best described as a trial and error in their 2-1 DStv Premiership loss to Golden Arrows at Princess Magogo Stadium in KwaMashu, Durban on Wednesday afternoon. In some areas, Amakhosi looked on the right track, but in others they showed huge deficiencies that will take time to get right. Zwane is, it must be said, still new on the job having taken over last week after Stuart Baxter was fired.  Signs that Zwane’s wish is for a Chiefs team who play with some flair came to the fore early in the game as they carried the ball with ease and the interchanging of passes allowed for a flowing game. This was getting the best out of the skills of players like Nkosingiphile Ngcobo, Khama Billiat and Keagan Dolly, who were orchestrating the forward movements.  They looked to be enjoying themselves, with even Cole Alexander joining in with a skilful turn that had the fans on their feet urging them on. Their goal came from one of the moves started from the back, with Ngcobo finding Leonardo Castro with a well placed through pass. He showed maturity by being unselfish and looping it over for Billiat who was better placed to slot it home.  Arrows also came into the game gradually and started looking threatening going forward and also managed to close down Chiefs, not allowing them to dictate the game. But they could not find the right pass in the final third.  The second half continued in the same manner with Chiefs looking the more dangerous in attack, while Arrows looked out of sorts up front.  That was until the 60th minute when Njabulo Ngcobo’s attempted pass from the back – as they looked to build from the back – was intercepted by Siboniso Conco. He ran straight at goal and beat Brandon Petersen for the equaliser which spurred Abafana Bes’thende on. Five minutes later, Ngcobo made another mistake, losing possession, and Arrows attacked. He was lucky that Saziso Magawana’s attempted curler went just wide with Petersen beaten.  Petersen was finally beaten again four minutes from the end with Michael Gumede connecting a cross from a free kick on the right to ensure Arrows complete a double over Amakhosi this season.