American singer, television personality and actress Kelendria Trene Rowland, popularly known as Kelly Rowland seems to be on a world tour with her first destination being South Africa.  The former Destiney’s Child singer took to social media to post a stunning video of herself transforming from a fresh, no makeup look dressed in a bath robe, to a fully beat face, bone straight black hair and a gorgeous beige evening dress. A tweep from South African replied to the post shared on Twitter asking whether the singer knows that whenever she posts any content, the country is in shambles.  “Does Kelly realise that South African Black Twitter goes into shamble everytime she posts,” aid the tweep. Kelly responded to the tweet saying that she was not aware, and in her response she also revealed that she is actually in South Africa.  “Hey Boo!! I didn’t know that!! Surprise….Surprise….cause, I’m here in S.A. Now!! Wait! Let me post a pic,” aid Rowland.  ALSO READ: Anele Mdoda shows why she’s unbothered by Kelly Rowland’s swimsuit The mother-of-two shared on her social media pages that she has written a children’s book which will be available everywhere for purchase from 26 April. “So excited to announce that my new children’s book Always With You, Always With Me will eb available everyone on April 26,” said Rowland. According to Penguin Random House, the synopsis of the book reads, “Grammy Award–winning artist Kelly Rowland and educator Jessica McKay have crafted a lyrical celebration of working moms everywhere and a soothing story for their children.  “As a mother gets ready to go to work, first she works on building the world for her child. Because it can sometimes be hard to be separated during the day, Mom collects some simple words that she and her child can repeat whenever they are missing each other or feeling overwhelmed: “Always with you, always with me, mommy and child, together we’ll be. “For any child who needs a little reassurance or just to share a sweet gesture of affection, Always with You, Always with Me is a loving tribute to families that honors the work a mother does both inside and outside of the home.” The 41-year-old singer has made many headlines across the country alongside South African radio DJ Anele Mdoda after Anele made claims on one of her radio segments that Rowland is not much of a good looking person when she is not wearing any makeup.  Mdoda’s comments on Kelly’s physical appearance soon became a trending topic on social media, going as far as reaching Kelly Rowland as well as American Twitter. The radio DJ was dragged for days across all social media channels for her comments, and was also given a taste of her own medicine when thousands of people made comments on her own physical appearance.