The family of famed fashion designer Lebohang Quiteria Kekana has confirmed his passing after he was diagnosed with cancer early last year. The 38-year-old reportedly died at his home in Melville, Johannesburg on Sunday following his battle with cancer. “It is with profound regret and sadness that the Kekana family confirm the ultimate passing of international fashion designer, son, father and brother Lebohang Quiteria Kekana,” a statement from the family read.  The internationally acclaimed designer owns a fashion label called Quiteria Atelier which dressed stars such as Beyonce for her Global Citizen performance in 2018.  Speaking to True Lovelast year, the famous designer detailed his diagnosis with multiple myeloma, a type of bone marrow cancer which affects several parts of the body such as the spine, skull, pelvis and ribs. He told the magazine that his body felt a lot of strain and he eventually suffered a concussion after he was attacked on Twitter for allegedly fat-shaming comedian Coconut Kelz (real name Lesego Tlhabi) during a fitting. The 33-year-old writer went on Twitter to air her altercations with the designer and alleged he called her a “Fatty boom boom”. “That’s when I went to the doctor to get checked out because I had started to develop lumps on my body too during that period. When I got there, I discovered that I had cancer,” Kekana explained. The Limpopo born designer maintained that he did not fat shame the comedian but she insisted he did. Before the designer started his own label, he was part of Quiteria & George design which was made up of himself and George Malelu. The duo were one of the local designers who got an opportunity to dress the megastar Beyonce Giselle Knowles-Carter during her performance at the Global Citizen Festival in 2018. The pair were firm favourites as their creations allowed celebrities such as Thando Thabete, Dineo Moeketsi and Fellow designer Enhle Mbali Mlotshwa to rock the red carpets. ALSO READ: Fashion designer Quiteria won’t apologise for ‘fat shaming’ Lesego Thlabi