Here is your daily news update. Click on the links below for the full story or visit our home page for the latest news.       President Cyril Ramaphosa reminded South Africans that despite much progress made since the dawn of democracy, the country is not yet where it should be. Ramaphosa was delivering the keynote address during the official Freedom commemoration event held in Kees Taljaaed Stadium in Middelburg, Mpumalanga. With the country celebrating 28 years of democracy on Wednesday 27 April, Ramaphosa said he understands many people will question the value of the freedom that so many fought so hard and died for. Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula has moved to assure airlines that there was adequate jet fuel at Johannesburg’s OR Tambo International Airport. This came after the country’s largest airport experienced shortages, causing at least one airline, US United Airlines to reportedly cancel flights over the weekend. The floods that ravaged KwaZulu-Natal and damaged railways caused logistics nightmare, affecting jet fuel supply chain from Durban to Johannesburg. According to Mbalula, the issue was resolved after a meeting with mineral resources and energy ministry and Airports Company South Africa (ACSA). In an interview with AFP, 87-year-old Mac Maharaj warned that corruption risked undermining the gains of the democracy that he fought and suffered for. “Everything shows it has lost contact with the ground,” Maharaj said of the ruling African National Congress (ANC). He was one of the party’s leading figures, spending more than a decade imprisoned alongside Nelson Mandela. Maharaj famously smuggled Mandela’s autobiography Long Walk to Freedom out of prison and joined Mandela’s cabinet after he won the first free elections on April 27, 1994. Joy was restored to the Mamelodi Sundowns camp on Wednesday, as they were confirmed as DStv Premiership champions for a fifth successive season.  Four days ago, Masandawana fans were wiping away the after an embarrassing exit in the Caf Champions League at the hands of Petro Atletico. That will still hurt in the corridors of Choorklop, but there can be no doubting the domestic dominance of the Tshwane giants. This was Sundowns’ 12th league title in the Premier Soccer League era.  It wasn’t the most watchable affair at Loftus Versfeld as Sundowns were held to a goalless draw by Cape Town City. But they only needed a point to make sure that second-placed Royal AM cannot catch them mathematically. Sundowns sit on 58 points while the KwaZulu-Natal side can only reach 57 points.