Gauteng Health MEC Nomathemba Mokgethi reveals that the Chief Executive Officer Gladys Bogoshi of Charlotte Maxeke Johannesburg Hospital (CMJH) should be held accountable for the failures at the hospital that have negatively impacted patients. In a written reply to the Democratic Alliance Gauteng Shadow Health MEC Jack Bloom questions if the Gauteng legislation, Mokgethi stated that Gladys Bogoshi earns an enormous amount of money but still fails to be held accountable for the failures at the hospital since she was appointed nine years ago. According to the Gauteng Health MEC, CMJH CEO Bogoshi currently earns R1,739,784 a year but is incompetent in ensuring that CMJH is properly maintained, including fire safety. Mokgethoi believes CMJH needs a new CEO to help boost the staff’s morale and fix issues that have a negative impact on patients’ health. Charlotte Maxeke hospital is still not in full operation after the hazardous blaze that affected the emergency in 2021. ALSO READ: DA raises concerns after psychiatric patients assault staff at Helen Joseph Hospital The CEO has not been held accountable for the fire at the hospital last year because the Department of Infrastructure Development is the custodian of the building and has not provided information to implicate the CEO in this matter. These particular failures have put patients at risk, and had to be transferred to Helen Joseph hospital and Baragwanath hospital. The key performance areas in her performance agreement are as follows:• National Health Insurance implementation • Improved patient experience • Improving clinical experience • Improved Health Education and Health Promotion • Governance and Leadership • Economic empowerment and job creation “I think that the CEO has been obviously incompetent in not fighting vigorously to ensure that her hospital was properly maintained, including adequate fire safety measures.  “She has been in charge of the hospital for nine years while treatment standards for patients have continued to fall.  “If there were effective performance monitoring, she would have been fired long ago,” the MEC said. ALSO READ: Health MEC blames vandalism for delays in reopening casualty at Charlotte Maxeke Hospital