Police Minister Bheki Cele received a hostile reception upon his arrival in Diepsloot, Soweto, on Wednesday afternoon. Following a two-day protest against crime, Diepsloot residents have threatened to shut down the area, citing the lack of police visibility and service delivery. According to the residents, they have been terrorised by criminals amid a number of murders in  Diepsloot recently. Cele, alongside National Police Commissioner Fannie Masemola, Gauteng premier David Makhura and provincial Community Safety MEC Faith Mazibuko visited Diepsloot on Wednesday to meet with the community leaders. ALSO READ: ‘We are poor, we are starving, we are forgotten’ – Diepsloot residents The police minister also visited the Diepsloot police station and was locked in a meeting with the provincial South African Police Service (Saps) management to discuss the interventions to address residents’ crime concerns. Addressing the community outside the police station, Cele pleaded with the residents to halt their protests until Friday. “Let’s all agree on what we are going to tell the community right now. We will then on Friday listen to the broader issues that you are all raising,” he said. The minister also promised to heighten police presence in Diepsloot. “We are going to deploy the Tactical Response Team (TRT) from today until all the matters are resolved in this community,” he said. “The national commissioner of police, General Fannie Masemola has promised to deliver 10 police vehicles and the provincial police commissioner has promised to deliver six vehicles to ensure high visibility and patrol here in Diepsloot,” Cele added. READ MORE: WATCH: Diepsloot protest reaches boiling point However, the community has indicated that they will continue their protests until Cele returns to the area, adding that they will take the minister to conduct a door-to-door intervention. It has been reported that seven people were shot dead while 14 others sustained serious injuries on Saturday, 2 April. This led to several roads in Diepsloot being barricaded overnight with burning tires and rocks; protesters have since dispersed and officers cleared the roads.