The South African Weather Service (SAWS) has warned residents in parts of KwaZulu-Natal to expect isolated showers and rain on Freedom Day.  According to the weather service, KZN residents can expect morning fog over the interior, otherwise partly cloudy and cool but cold weather in the south-west.      “Isolated showers and rain are expected along the coast and adjacent interior from the afternoon,” said the weather service on Tuesday.     “The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh southerly to south-westerly, becoming gentle south-easterly from the south in the afternoon.” The expected UVB sunburn index: High     Gauteng: Partly cloudy and warm, but fine in the south. The expected UVB sunburn index: High Mpumalanga: Cloudy with morning fog patches along the escarpment, otherwise partly cloudy and cool, but warm over the Lowveld. Limpopo: Morning fog patches along the escarpment, otherwise cloudy and cool to warm with isolated showers and thundershowers in the south-west. North West: Fine and cool, becoming partly cloudy in the afternoon. Free State: Morning fog patches in the east, otherwise fine and cold to cool becoming partly cloudy in the west. Northern Cape: Fine and cool to warm becoming partly cloudy in the north and central parts. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh southerly and south-easterly becoming strong late afternoon. Western Cape: Morning fog patches in places over the central parts, otherwise fine and cool to warm but hot in places over the northern parts of the West Coast District. ALSO READ: Isolated showers and thundershowers expected in Limpopo on Tuesday The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh southerly to south-easterly but light north-easterlyalong the south coast in the morning. The expected UVB sunburn index: High Western half of the Eastern Cape: Partly cloudy in the south at first, otherwise fine and cool. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate westerly, becoming moderate to fresh easterly to north-easterly in the afternoon. Eastern half of the Eastern Cape: Partly cloudy along the coast during the morning, otherwise fine and cool to cold. The wind along the coast will be Moderate to fresh south westerly, becoming north-easterly by late afternoon.