It’s almost May and most people have just been paid or are about to so several people throughout the world are wondering just what to get the mother figures in their lives.The Citizen has compiled a quick gift guide for every kind of mum to ensure that you can make the most out of this Mother’s Day on 8 May 2022. A home upgrade, either through renovations or new tools is always welcome and these tools could do just that for your mum or most mums you know.Whether you’re dealing with a seasoned cook or someone who is just looking to find their feet, here are some Mother’s Day gift ideas for the kitchen.  Kitchen storage: Create that Instagram worthy, easy-to-navigate kitchen with storage items starting from R45.99 from stores like Mr P Home, @Home or Westpack Lifestyle. Dinnerware is also a great gift for frequent entertainers who place a premium on presentation.Alternatively, cookbooks by local celebrity chefs such as Somizi Mhlongo, J Something and Mogau Seshoene (The Lazy Makoti) and the late Lesego Semenya are always a good gift idea. In keeping with the idea of gifts for the home, the home fragrance is all the rage right now.Instead of perfume for the body, you could help the mums in your life create a scent profile for their home by gifting the fragrant sprays, diffusers and candles from stores like Arc in Sandton, Mr P Home – which has a new premium home fragrance range – and @Home.You could also help bring slight comforting touches to a space with gifts like cushions, ottomans, throws and table ornaments. Retail store Foschini has always had a solid beauty offering and they have bolstered their stocks in recent years, offering items from brands like Lancome, Clinique, Smashbox, Black Opal, Maybelline and Revlon to name a few.  Foschini even launched its brand that features cute items such as eyeshadow palettes, makeup application tools and other products which make for great gifts.  They even have cruelty free and vegan items on offer.  For people looking to save, Foschini has an up to 25% off sale going until 8 May 2022 for shoppers who buy any two skincare, makeup or foundation items. Living a healthy lifestyle can have quite a significant impact on one’s budget. Take the weight off your favourite fitness-loving mum’s shoulders with vouchers to their favourite stores by stocking up on their fitness faves and gifting the items in a personalised hamper loaded into gift packaging.  A dress with pockets is always a win.  You could also gift your favourite fashion lover with a new statement coat for the upcoming chilly weather, a statement bag or jewellery to complete any one of their favourite outfits. Experiences like trips, afternoons spent doing outdoor activities, spa days and or a high tea experience are also great gifts for the people whose mums also appreciate the gifts they’ll be able to remember forever. Compiled by Kaunda Selisho