eThekwini mayor Mxolisi Kaunda accused the council of following “social media rumours” when they voted against the appointment of Maxwell Mbili as the new city manager. Mbili is a former city manager at Ray Nkonyeni Local Municipality in Port Shepstone, KwaZulu-Natal. The ANC coalition in the metro was dealt a blow on Monday when they failed to garner enough votes to install Mbili, after coalition ally Abantu Batho Congress (ABC) reportedly voted against the panel’s recommendation, along with the Democratic Alliance (DA) and other parties. ABC, led by deputy mayor Philani ‘PG’ Mavundla, lent their vote to the ANC after last year’s municipal elections, resulting in the election of Kaunda as mayor during council sittings marred by chaos. ALSO READ: ANC retains eThekwini municipality, as Mxolisi Kaunda beats DA’s Graham Briefing media on Wednesday, Kaunda said the selection panel had initially received 256 applications for the post. “Twenty-five were shortlisted, and after another rigorous selection process, the panel made a recommendation for the candidate for the position. “However, after deliberations, the council did not appoint the candidate whose name cannot be divulged until he or she is informed of the outcome.” He added that despite the objections, the screening panel did its job and due processes were followed.  “It is unfortunate that the opposition rejected the candidate on the basis of rumours circulated through media. The exco [executive committee] will look at the nitty gritty on the management of this process.  “Furthermore, HR still needs to write letters to applicants on the outcome, the shortlisted need to be taken into confidence and informed… we respect their rights in that way so that they do not accuse the panel of flouting processes.” READ MORE: Chaos as ANC supporters disrupt eThekwini council sitting However, eThekwini DA caucus leader Nicole Graham said the selection process was flawed.  Graham said the panel was chaired by Kaunda, effectively leading to council rejecting Mbili and the panel’s report. “The DA maintained from the start that the panel should include members of the opposition. A proposal to include the full executive committee as the screening panel was narrowly defeated by the council in December already.” “The panel consisted of two ANC councillors – the mayor and councillor Nkosenhle Madlala – and a member from civil society.” Before the interviews could be concluded, Graham said, information was leaked that the ANC’s deployment committee had met and that a favoured candidate had been named.  “This is the same candidate whose name was submitted as the highest ranked candidate by the panel on Monday.  “The law is very clear that council must satisfy itself that the process is lawful, fair and not compromised by politics. The process must start again and must be as open, fair and transparent as possible. Members of the opposition must be included on this panel,” she said. In the meantime, KwaZulu-Natal’s only metro remains without a city boss. Kaunda said Musa Mbele will continue acting in the position until a city manager is appointed by council. NOW READ: Allegations of exchanged brown envelopes fly as ANC retains eThekwini