Mamelodi Sundowns ladies midfielder Boitumelo Rabale admitted that they found it very difficult coming up against Ma-Indies in their opening match of the Hollywoodbets Super League. The Brazilian ladies earned a 2-1 victory against a side from Limpopo, who gave their all to try and fight their way back into the game. READ ALSO: PSL set to receive influx of complaints as GladAfrica race hots up Downs ladies debutant Miche Minnies, scored her first goal for Banyana Ba Style earlier in the match, before Rabale extended the lead, but Ma-Indies pulled one goal back just before half-time courtesy of Valeria Packry in their effort to stage a come-back, but their attempts were not fruitful against the reigning league champions. Rabale, who had a sterling game with her performance earning a Player-of-the-match award, was delighted with the accolade and thanked everyone at the club for the award. “I am very happy to have won the Player-of-the-match award, it was not easy and if it was not for my teammates I wouldn’t have achieved this kind of performance. So, I would like to thank my teammates, my team in general as well as the management for giving me a chance to play, I thank them,” said the midfielder. Meanwhile, JVW FC were the biggest winners in the opening week of the league as they thrashed Richmond ladies 10-2 at Milpark Stadium on Saturday. Last season’s joint top scorer Mpumi Nyandeni, continued from where she left off last campaign, with the striker netting a hat-trick, as well as Banyana Banyana winger Gabriela Salgado, while Mamello Makhabane, Robyn Moodaly and Tanna Hollis each score one goals, while the other one was an own-goal from Richmond ladies. The Blue Diamonds victory over Richmond ladies placed them at the top of the league standings due to their superior goal-difference, with the side tied on three points with First Touch ladies, Bloemfontein Celtic Ladies, Downs ladies, Thunderbird Ladies, University of Western Cape ladies and University of Johannesburg ladies. Rest of the results: Saturday. JVW FC 10, Richmond ladies 2 Golden Ladies 1, Thunderbirds 2 Coal City Wizards 0, University of Johannesburg 1 City Lads 1, UWC 2 Bloemfontein Celtic ladies 2, Vasco da Gama 1 Sunday. First Touch ladies 5, Tsunami Queens 0