In this week’s royal news update, a new royal book featuring Prince William is set to shake up Buckingham Palace once again.  Queen Elizabeth II is in good spirits after meeting the Swiss president and Meghan Markle and Prince Harry’s exit from the royal family didn’t go according to plan.  According to a new royal book, it seems Prince William knew the gravity of being king one day at the young age of four years old.  The royal book titled The Palace Papers: Inside the House of Windsor, the Truth and the turmoil written by Tina Brown tells a few stories of how Prince William was aware of his status as a future monarch from a young age, Business Insider reported.  The book details how the Duke of Cambridge was a rebellious young royal with bratty behaviour, a sense of entitlement, many tantrums and one time telling a nanny he would punish her when he becomes king one day.  Brown reportedly interviewed about 120 people to find her information, and these sources have been described as people close to senior royals.  “By the time he was four, he had the unattractive habit of yapping at his nanny, Barbara Banes, ‘No one tells me what to do! When I am king I will have you punished,'” Brown wrote.  ALSO READ: Royal news: Queen absent from Easter Church service, gets a visit from Harry and Meghan in UK William’s mother, the late Princess Diana is said to have scolded her son for his behaviour.  The book will also have “inside stories” of other royal members which include Prince Harry, Kate Middleton, Meghan Markle, Prince Charles and Camilla Parker Bowels.  The Palace Papers will look at the lives of the royals after the passing of the “People’s Princess” Diana over 20 years ago and all the scandals that have occurred since.  Earlier this week William and Kate commemorated Anzac Day, Australians and New Zealanders who have lost their lives in conflict and paid thanks to all those who have served this.  The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge also celebrated their son Prince Louis’s fourth birthday. Queen Elizabeth II looked on healthy form Thursday as she met face-to-face with Switzerland’s president, in the build-up to UK-wide celebrations for her Platinum Jubilee in early June. The monarch returned to Windsor Castle after a week-long break on her Sandringham estate in Norfolk, eastern England, where she marked her 96th birthday in private on April 21. The audience with President Ignazio Cassis was her first official engagement since then, and she held it in person rather than by video. Smiling broadly for photographs with Cassis and his wife Paola, the queen stood without her walking stick, after complaining of mobility problems in recent months.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Cassis met separately with Prime Minister Boris Johnson, and the leaders agreed on a joint statement to work towards a UK-Swiss trade deal after Britain’s Brexit departure from the European Union. Johnson’s government prorogued parliament on Thursday ahead of local elections on May 5. A new session of parliament will convene on May 10 — normally a grand state occasion when the queen presents her government’s forthcoming legislative agenda. READ NEXT: Prince Andrew stripped Freedom of City honour Aides have said the queen’s attendance at the state opening of parliament will only be confirmed nearer the time after she was forced to miss a traditional Easter service. Elizabeth has missed only two state openings during her long reign, in 1959 and 1963, when she was pregnant with Prince Andrew and then Prince Edward. A royal biographer Tina Brown has claimed that when Meghan and Harry left the royal family they didn’t expect the outcome to be so harsh.  Brown told Express UK that the couple was expecting an ultimatum from the royals to stay in the family instead of being isolated. It has been widely reported William and Harry’s relationship has been strained ever since.  Compiled by Sandisiwe Mbhele, additional reporting AFP