One would not have guessed from Mark Boucher’s face that he was celebrating another Proteas series win on Monday, but the lack of a big smile was probably because the South Africa coach knows his first priority now is to save his job. The Proteas ended their season on Monday in Gqeberha with a crunching 332-run win over Bangladesh for a 2-0 series victory and an overall record of five wins from seven Tests this summer. Combined with their unexpectedly good showing at the T20 World Cup and their brilliant 3-0 ODI whitewash of India, their coach should be sitting pretty and all smiles. Instead, Boucher will be facing a disciplinary hearing next month over charges of gross misconduct. In terms of his on-field job, in the here-and-now, about the only shortcomings of this Test side have been their annoying tendency to lose the first Test of a series, as they did against India and in New Zealand. “It’s been a good summer, but we are still learning. We’re definitely not the complete team yet,” Boucher said sternly. “We’ve had our challenges, but we’ve played some very competitive cricket at times. “There have also been times when we have played some bad cricket, like the first Tests against India and New Zealand, but we have grown a lot in a short space of time. “For me personally, it has been tough. I’ve really enjoyed coaching the guys and the cricketing side of my job. It’s a tight unit, but outside that team environment, it’s quite difficult to say I’ve enjoyed it. “I don’t think anyone would be able to say they enjoy what has been put on my plate.” ALSO READ: Proteas bask in summer sun, but there are bigger Tests to come The 45-year-old was famous for being a fighter in his playing days, however, and overcoming challenges is his trademark – something his team managed to do against Bangladesh when they were lumped with a second-string side due to five players choosing to go to the IPL instead. “It gave us the opportunity to play a couple of other guys and see what sort of players we have in the system. And also the opportunity to play a different brand of cricket, which has been good to watch,” Boucher said. “It’s a nice position to be in. The IPL guys did vacate their spots, and there is good competition now for those places. Through Covid we’ve looked at a lot of players and I think it’s paying off now.”