As things are now out in the open following the finale of the 14th season of kykNET’s matchmaker series, Boer Soek ’n Vrou, some interesting developments have taken place over the last few months. The finale’s filming concluded in November last year, which means that there has been ample time for dust to settle, love to grow and matches to be mixed. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Farmer Nelis’ chosen partner, Esmerélda was all in from the start and they were very lovey-dovey come the reunion and the final Boer Soek ’n Vrou episode, which aired last week.  It was only in December that Nelis informed her that he was not ready for a relationship. READ: ‘Boer Soek ’n Vrou’ Season 14 ends on a high note The participants of the 14th season arranged an informal get together in Clarens in the Free State early in March, which is where Esmerélda soon realised that she might have written a letter to the wrong farmer. During the Clarens getaway, Esmerélda and Johan Lombard – another one of the 14th season’s top five farmers – seem to have hit it off.  In an exclusive interview with Huisgenoot, they said that four months after filming Boer Soek ’n Vrou’s 14th season’s final episode, they came to realise that they get along very well.  In fact, after the Clarens weekend, Esmerélda even joked and told Johan that he should invite her to visit him on the farm so they could get to know each other better. Well, he did, and the rest seems to be history. Johan, a farmer from Marquard in the Free State and his original Boer Soek ’n Vrou match, Arina had decided to only be friends toward the end of the programme’s 14th season. Now, Johan and Esmerélda have confirmed they are officially a couple and have been since 20 March this year. They are inseparable and visit each other every weekend. Johan says his bakkie drives the 380km to Springs by itself by now and that it is the first time he wants to make an effort with someone.  “I feel happy when I am with her,” he told Huisgenoot. Johan – who lost two of his fingers when he was younger – shared a picture of him and Esmerélda on his Instagram feed, saying: “I am glad I didn’t let you slip through my fingers. So glad you came to Clarens!” Tyson, a fellow top 5 farmer of the latest Boer Soek ’n Vrou season commented, saying that the caption is on point and Tyson’s girlfriend, Alri also said: “I like this.” If this is not proof that love always finds a way, what is? ‘Boer Soek ‘n Vrou”s 15th season with the talented Marciel Hopkins as presenter has been confirmed and farmers looking for love can enter now by downloading the entry form on www.kyknet.tv, e-mailing boer@wolflightsa.com or contacting the producers, Wolflight on 079 335 5137.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.