The Stormers held on for a thrilling 19-17 United Rugby Championship win over the Bulls at the Cape Town Stadium on Saturday afternoon. Despite the low scoring match it was an exciting show, with the top two SA teams giving it their all in a game that was a mixture of tight Test match rugby with some exhilarating open play sprinkled in as well. Here are three key moments that highlighted the match. The Hacjivah Dayimani impact Stormers flank Hacjivah Dayimani put in a box office display and was deservedly named man of the match for his performance across the park. He scored a scintillating try at the end of the first half, was part of most of the Stormers’ attacking play and was a menace at the breakdown.  His try came after the hooter with the Stormers playing from a goal line drop out, leading to three big plays as Deon Fourie stole the Bulls’ ball, Manie Libbok ripped the ball from Kurt-Lee Arendse and Dayimani then stepped Chris Smith to score.  He also then received a yellow card with eight minutes to go in the match which brought the Bulls back into the contest, with him admitting after he thought he was in for a red card. More reffing controversies The Dayimani yellow card was big moment, but took forever for the decision to be made after a number of bizarre discussions between ref Frank Murphy and TMO Marius van der Westhuizen.  Dayimani clearly went high on Kurt-Lee Arendse who was surging down the left hand touch into the Stormers 22m, with a swinging arm that would have made contact with the neck if not for Arendse’s arm blocking him, a clear yellow card.  But initially the ref cleared the foul play, as the Bulls had continued on to score in the corner. But when Van Der Westhuizen then brought Murphy’s attention to a knock on from Arendse in the tackle, Murphy reinstated the foul play, giving a penalty and sending off Dayimani. Lazy play costs Bulls Lazy play from Bulls eighthman Elrigh Louw ended up costing the Bulls in the second half as they had to play catch rugby and ended up falling just short.  Just after a brilliant counter attacking try from wing Canaan Moodie had just brought the Bulls level, Louw handed back the initiative to the home side in four minutes. He first strayed offside with the Stormers on attack in his own 22m, with the penalty right in front of the posts, which Libbok knocked over easily.  He then again was offside this time near the halfway line, but also in front with Libbok nailing the long range penalty putting the Stormers 16-10 upm with the Bulls again having to play catch up rugby. Scorers Stormers: Try: Hacjivah Dayimani; Conversion: Manie Libbok; Penalties: Libbok (3); Drop Goal: Damian Willemse Bulls: Tries: Canaan Moodie, Elrigh Louw; Conversions: Chris Smith, Morne Steyn; Penalty: Chris Smith