President Cyril Ramaphosa will address a hybrid joint sitting of Parliament on the oversight role the national legislature and other institutions or sectors of society could play in the country’s response to the devastating floods that have affected KwaZulu-Natal. More than 430 people lost their lives to the deluge, with 54 people still missing since the natural disaster caused a trail of destruction in KZN and parts of the Eastern Cape two weeks ago. It is estimated that more than 40 000 people have been displaced by the floods in KZN. The floods have caused extensive damage to houses, businesses, roads, bridges and water, electricity, rail and telecommunication infrastructure. The joint sitting of Parliament on Tuesday afternoon, scheduled to begin at 2 pm at the Cape of Good Hope Chambers, will include both Houses of Parliament – the National Assembly and the National Council of Provinces (NCOP). ALSO READ: Parliament to establish ad hoc committee on KZN floods Acting Presidency spokesperson Tyrone Seale said the president is inviting Parliament to ensure that resources reserved for social and economic assistance following recent floods reach the intended beneficiaries. “Government’s response is unfolding in three phases: firstly, immediate humanitarian relief, ensuring that all affected persons are safe and that their basic needs are met. “Secondly, building shelters for people who have lost their homes and restoring provision of services,” “Thirdly, on reconstruction and rebuilding of infrastructure,” Seale said in a statement. The joint sitting of Parliament will be livestreamed on PresidencyZA platforms and other channels. Meanwhile, the United Nations (UN) in South Africa arrived in KZN as part of a three-day visit to the flood-ravaged province. The technical team, comprising of members from various UN agencies are expected to meet with Provincial Disaster Management Centre and eThekwini Municipality officials to assess where the United Nations Development System can lend a helping hand. “We have been supporting the province following the floods in 2019 and the civil unrest of 2021 and will continue to support rebuilding efforts to ensure that no one is left behind as part of the Memorandum of Understanding that we have in place with the provincial leadership in that province,” said acting resident coordinator for the UN in South Africa Ayodele Odusola. NOW READ: United Nations to visit flood-ravaged KZN