The next red carpet on the South African event calendar is… a blue carpet, chosen to represent the official colour for DStv as the pay-tv service gears up to host the Mzansi Viewer’s Choice Awards ceremony after a two-year hiatus. The event venue, date and nominees were revealed at an intimate event in Inanda, Sandton hosted by Big Brother Mzansi host, Lawrence Maleka. Maleka – who played the beloved Zolani in 1Magic’s ‘The River’ – will also serve as the official host for the DStv Mzansi Viewer’s Choice Awards (DSTVMVCA) which are set to take place at the Sun Arena in Pretoria on 25 June 2022.  The awards will also be broadcast live on Mzansi Magic (DStv channel 161). The evening’s winners will all be stars who have been voted for by the South African public and the DMVCAs will seek to honour the top achievers who have made their mark over the past two years in television, radio, music, sports and comedy. Stars won’t be the only ones walking away with something as DStv viewers also stand a chance to win one of three KIA vehicles if they have voted for their favourite stars.  There are a number of ways to vote, including voting via the MyDStv App and on the dedicated “dstvmvca” portal on the mzansimagic.tv website.  Voting closes on 11 June 2022. ALSO READ: First look: Somizi answers questions about his failed marriage in explosive new trailer “We are excited to be back on stage and on screen for the 2022 DStv Mzansi Viewers’ Choice Awards. The nominees are all deserving but the only way to make sure your favourite wins is to vote! Through the MyDStv App and on the Mzansi Magic website you can make your voice heard and guarantee that your star of choice walks away with an award,” said Nyiko Shiburi, CEO of MultiChoice South Africa. All eyes will be on the DSTVMVCA blue carpet as fans weigh in on what the evening’s guests have chosen to wear after a recently reignited interest in pop culture, the entertainment industry and the fanfare of red carpets. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Look: Stars dazzle at RHOLagos red carpet launch held in Hyde Park Sparked by the much-talked-about Bridgerton South Africa launch and that of Shomax’s Real Housewives of Lagos, which boasted a beautiful pink carpet, one can’t help but anticipate what DSTVMVCA may have to offer at the intersections of fashion and entertainment.   Favourite Song Favourite TV Presenter Favourite Comedian Favourite Rising Star Favourite Radio Personality Favourite Actor Favourite Actress Favourite Music Artist/Group Favourite DJ Favourite Sports Personality Favourite Personality