TAB and 4Racing are making it easier than ever to ‘Take A Bet’ with the launch of  a new website and mobile application that will significantly enhance the online betting experience for horseracing and soccer punters. The TAB4Racing app and website is being launched to coincide with this weekend’s bumper TAB Champion’s Day at Turffontein on Saturday 30 April, one of the biggest race days of the year celebrating the country’s elite horseracing champions. The desktop and mobile device versions of the new app and website can be accessed via www.tab4racing.com and provides a new, simple, fun and easy way for punters to browse, engage with and bet on horseracing. Nifty features of the new app includes top tipsters and experts’ race day picks, the ability to share your bet selections with your friends or onto your social media accounts, improved bet placement and race and venue navigation, simplified Computaform information, and all the horseracing news, silks, jockey and trainer information at the tip of your fingers. These two new betting interfaces will be an alternative option to the current online offering – play.tabonline.co.za. Registering and funding a TAB account is quicker and easier than before.  New customers can be up and betting in no time at all.  If you simply want to browse races and learn how to bet, you can do so without registering and logging in. “4Racing is building a new South African horseracing experience and our new tab4racing.com app and website are important products geared towards making enjoying horseracing and betting with the TAB that much simpler and easier for punters. While we love nothing more than having racegoers on the track, we understand that punters have increasingly gone online and we hope that the tab4racing app will become an essential part of their enjoyment of South African horseracing,” says 4Racing Chief Executive Officer, Fundi Sithebe. Change can be tough; we want to make it stress free. Existing TAB account holders can simply login using their existing credentials. Importantly, they will still be able to use the current website for the foreseeable future. The app allows for quick and easy feedback. Chatting with call centre agents takes place live, enabling a far easier betting experience. One of the standout features of the app is the live streaming and following of local and international races on 4RacingTV’s Global Racing 1 and 2 betting channels. You can also keep tabs of your live bets and track your past bets on the app, get notice of your winning notifications and of the bet menu and all details of big pools ahead of upcoming race days. On the soccer front, TAB’s range of popular soccer pools, which include Soccer 6, 10 and 13, will complement the horseracing news, information and betting on the app, and soccer punters will find all the team performance and head-to-head information needed to help inform their bets.  TAB4Racing will take tote betting to a whole new audience that prioritises the mobile-first and digital lifestyle, while also improving the betting experience for seasoned and loyal punters. “Our 4Racing betting experience team has developed improved digital betting experiences we are all very proud of and we are constantly working on enhancing and adding new features to improve the betting experience for punters.  “We’ve tested the app with a number of industry partners and the feedback has been overwhelmingly positive for a product that is a big leap forward from our existing online TAB betting products.  “We encourage punters to play around with the TAB4Racing.com and to get to know its features, and to share their positive and negative feedback with us, to ensure we continue to improve on their horseracing and betting experience,” adds Sithebe.