South African social media users will never let an opportunity pass to mention Anele Mdoda and Kelly Rowland’s names in the same breath.  There has been a running joke on Twitter which involves invoking the 947’s radio host’s name every time Rowland posts anything about herself, and when Rowland announced that she is in South Africa, social media users didn’t disappoint, After the American singer surprised locals that she was in the country on Thursday, proving she arrived by posting a picture of herself glamorously dressed at Zioux restaurant in Sandton, Johannesburg, tweeps immediately started asking where Anele is. What made the situation even funnier this time is that Kelly’s announcement coincided with Anele announcing a persona hiatus, prompting suggestions that the two events are related. The drama all started after Mdoda claimed Rowland isn’t really a good looking person when she is not wearing any makeup. ALSO READ: ‘Surprise surprise, I’m here in SA’ – Kelly Rowland These words were said nearly three years ago, but the south remembers, and on Thursday the memes were once again out in full force.  Anele announced on her 947 breakfast show that she was going off-air to travel around the world from Thursday to “explore” new ideas. She described her adventurous absence as a “two-month fact-finding stint and mission” and one of the places she will explore includes Edinburg, Scotland.  Anele will return to the airwaves on 1 July This sudden leave of absence and Kelly’s arrival in South Africa had the streets of social media speculating about whether Anele knew Kelly was coming to the country and decided ‘to make a run for it’.  ALSO READ: Anele Mdoda to take a break from radio Another weird coincidence was when Anele and Rowland wore nearly identical swimsuits during their vacations last year.  Fans of both public figures lost their minds and began theorising that Kelly had gone in search of the exact same swimsuit, scenery and necklace in an effort to send Mdoda a message.  RELATED: Anele Mdoda shows why she’s unbothered by Kelly Rowland’s swimsuit gate