Here is your daily news update. Click on the links below for the full story or visit our home page for the latest news. Speaking during a live briefing on Sunday afternoon, KwaZulu Natal Premier Zihle Zikalala confirmed that the official KZN floods death toll had risen to 443 with 63 people still missing.As of Saturday, the death toll stood at 398, with 27 people still missing.  He also confirmed, as outlined in previous briefings and TV interviews, that a KZN floods war room had been established comprising various provincial stakeholders. After a relatively incident-free weekend, Eskom has announced that it would be implementing Stage 2 load shedding from 4pm on Sunday afternoon. “Load shedding will, regretfully, continue until 5am on Wednesday, 20 April, depending on the level of breakdowns. Loadshedding is implemented only as a last resort to protect the national grid,” explained the power utility in a statement after apologizing to the public.  Over the past 24 hours, island destination Zanzibar has found itself trending for all the wrong reasons and this has prompted statements from the country’s government and official tourism bodies.  It all began when a young Nigerian woman, named Zainab Oladehinde, shared a horrific experience she had at a particular hotel a year ago when she travelled to the destination for a solo holiday to celebrate her 23rd birthday. She detailed as much of her ordeal as she could in a lengthy Twitter thread complete with pictures, videos and screenshots. Law enforcement officials have arrested the brother of kidnapping mastermind Faizal Charloos in Lenasia on Sunday, in relation to the spate of kidnappings plaguing the suburb and other areas in the south of Johannesburg. Authorities also pounced on wanted suspect Irfaan Adamjee (known as “Muffins”). A source close to the investigation who was at the scene, told The Citizen that Muffins was considered dangerous after he threatened a Lenasia resident last week. Following claims that he had received his own municipal water tanker outside his home as alleged in a viral video, KZN Premier Sihle Zikalala has rubbished these claims.  Speaking during a media briefing on Sunday held to provide updates regarding the KZN floods, relief efforts and mop-up operations, Zikalala addressed the video posted on TikTok and Twitter showing a water tanker stationed outside his home.