The Zulu royal household faction led by Prince Mbonisi Zulu has launched another direct attack on Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi. During a media briefing held in Umhlanga on Thursday, Zulu said Buthelezi had no position in royal household matters as he was the one who attacked the Mbelebeleni (KwaMashu) and Nyokeni royal palaces in the ’90s. At the time, Buthelezi’s IFP was dominant in KZN and the faction is now accusing him of attempting to persecute the late King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu. The faction, which calls itself the senior royal family members, is against the appointment of King Misuzulu kaZwelithini as the ruler of the Zulu nation. Zulu said there was also a group who called themselves izinduna of the royal household, but spread rumours that there was a war being perpetuated by King Zwelithini’s siblings when they raised concerns about matters that were not done in accordance with the Zulu custom. The late king has made it clear in his letter who should speak and deal with royal household matters. Before his passing, King Zwelithini had displayed his displeasure [about] the KwaZulu-Natal government during Buthelezi’s time when his palaces were attacked by men armed with guns. “What is important is for the nation to be alerted to those people who call themselves izinduna of the royal household, who approach the newspapers spreading false information that we are inciting a battle when we take our position as the siblings of the late King Zwelithini,” said Zulu in Thursday’s statement. He said there is a man who calls himself the secretary of izinduna, who wrote in one of the newspapers about a war resulting from the faction’s interference in royal household matters. He is warning us that we are starting a war when we are actually trying to restore order in our homestead. This man said we are hunting a vicious species of animal and we are closer to this animal. I want to know, is our son Misuzulu this vicious animal? “We are appealing to those people who go around calling conferences using the royal household name to know that the protocol does not work like that,” he said. He said before his death, the late king had explicitly stated in a letter who has the power to handle the matters of succession and those affecting the Zulu Royal Household. In the past few months we heard about the forging of the late King’s signature in his will. We are waiting for the law to play its role on this matter. The matter of the late king’s will and his purportedly forged signature are before the courts. Buthelezi’s spokesperson, Liezl van der Merwe, said Buthelezi will look at the remarks made at the so-called press conference and respond in due course, if at all necessary. King Misuzulu’s spokesperson Prince Thulani Zulu did not reply to requests for comment.