A pupil from St John’s College in Johannesburg has declined to participate in a mediation process with a pupil from Michaelhouse after an alleged racist incident during a sports match. An independent legal consultant investigating the alleged racism that occurred between Michaelhouse and St John’s College 1st XI hockey match had recommended mediation. ALSO READ | Michaelhouse, St John’s derby day cancelled after alleged racial slur This comes after a hockey player from Michaelhouse allegedly used a racial slur against a player from St John’s College during the Derby Day match on May 28 this year. This led to the schools cancelling the hockey match between the KwaZulu-Natal school and Gauteng school, and the alleged perpetrator was temporarily suspended pending investigation. Michaelhouse school appointed an independent legal consultant to probe the racism allegations. In a joint statement by both the Michaelhouse rector, Antony Clark, and chairperson of the board, Anthony Hewat, they said both the Michaelhouse and St John’s College boys had made the favourable decision to pursue a mediation process. However, in a communique to the St John’s community on Monday, executive headmaster Stuart West confirmed the pupil and his family had now decided not to pursue the mediation process. He feels the proposed mediation process would not bring the lasting personal closure he seeks. West said an independent investigator recommended a formal disciplinary process be followed if either pupil and/or their parents declined to engage in mediation. Michaelhouse is following this recommendation and will now conduct a formal disciplinary hearing on the matter according to their disciplinary code and procedures. This will require the relevant staff and students from both schools to participate in that process. ALSO READ | Schools’ racism row resolved West said as an Anglican Diocesan school, they are conscious of their responsibility for ensuring their words and deeds are consonant with their values and respect for human dignity, diversity and inclusion. Michaelhouse rector Clark said in a statement to his school community that they would follow the recommendation of the independent investigator and conduct a formal disciplinary process. “Michaelhouse remains steadfastly committed to being an inclusive, non-discriminatory school community,” he said. Clark said the pupil was no longer on precautionary suspension. Asked if the derby would go ahead next year, Clark said: “In the interests of all boys, both schools have agreed to a cooling-off period with regard to this event. “It is important to both schools that the relationship, which has suffered, is rebuilt,” he added.