The death toll for the horrific crash between Nquthu and Babanango, in northern KwaZulu-Natal, has risen to ten. This was confirmed by the spokesperson of the Department of Transport, Community and Safety Liaison, Thuba Vilane, on Thursday morning. According to Vilane, the department discovered that the taxi was travelling from around the area towards Babanango when there was a head on collision involving a light motor vehicle. “Yesterday seven people had died but this morning (Thursday) we just got confirmation that the death rate had risen to 10,” said Vilane. He added that both vehicles caught alight which resulted in the victims being burnt beyond recognition. He said that the department is still in the process of identifying the family members of the dead. Also Read | Seven killed in horror crash Lieutenant Colonel Nqobile Gwala said that a case of culpable homicide is being investigated by Nquthu SAPS. “It is alleged that on Wednesday at 4:50 pm, in the Nkalankala area, a taxi with 18 passengers including the driver collided with a vehicle that had four people. “Both vehicles caught fire and the passengers in the taxi were trapped inside. A total of seven people that were in the taxi including the driver died. Others sustained injuries and were rushed to hospital for medical attention,” said Gwala. She added that the matter is still under investigation. Vilane added that these accidents are a serious concern for the department. “We have lost 24 people in 3 major accidents alone, in the past weekend that happened in the province. “As we speak, we are currently attending a memorial service for the 12 people that died in an accident in Mpophomeni last weekend and we are somehow pleased that the driver from the Mpophomeni accident has been charged for culpable homicide and reckless driving so we just hope that this will send a clear message to other road users that we must always obey the traffic rules,” said Vilane. Vilane urged all drivers to drive safely at all times on the roads and to respect the rules of the road, saying that if one really needs to overtake, they must try and be patient and only do so when it is safe. Mayor of the Nquthu Municipality, Lindokuhle Shabalala, said that he was shocked by the horrific death of people dying in a blaze. “I went to the scene yesterday evening and was distraught by the scene of the accident because people were burnt beyond recognition,” said Shabalala. KZN MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Peggy Nkonyeni, has also called for motorists to be extra vigilant in order to curb the spate of fatal road crashes in the province. Meanwhile, the Democratic Alliance (DA) has announced in a statement that it has received an assurance from the KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) Transport portfolio committee chairperson Siboniso Mtshali, that the transport department will be called to account following several days of horrific carnages on the province’s roads. DA KZN spokesperson on transport, Sharon Hoosen, said in the statement that the DA’s intention at the next portfolio committee will be to establish what strategies the DoT has in place to reduce the current severe loss of life. “In the interim, we urge acting MEC Jomo Sibiya and his department to act swiftly to ensure proper road maintenance on all provincial roads, speed reduction measures including speed humps or cameras and high visibility of law enforcement on all major routes, particularly so-called hotspots,” said Hoosen.