Most people only took notice of the National Development Plan (NDP) after its commissioners put out a statement recently proposing measures to end load shedding. According to the National Planning Commission website, the NDP’s aim is to eliminate poverty and reduce inequality by 2030. Former president Jacob Zuma appointed the National Planning Commission, an advisory body consisting of 26 experts, in May 2010, to draft a vision and national development plan. The Commission’s Diagnostic Report was released a year later, setting out South Africa’s achievements and shortcomings since 1994. It identified a failure to implement policies and an absence of broad partnerships as the main reasons for slow progress. The report also set out nine primary challenges to overcome: ALSO READ: Infrastructure: SA’s best weapon to combat low GDP, poverty and unemployment A draft national plan was then released with four more thematic areas, namely rural economy, social protection, regional and world affairs, and community safety. After consulting widely, the NDP was released with these goals for 2030, eight years from now, to eliminate income poverty and reduce the proportion of households with a monthly income below R419 per person (in 2009 prices) from 39% to zero and reduce inequality to decrease the Gini coefficient to 0.6. The NDP sets these enabling milestones for the country: ALSO READ: Freedom Day: whose freedom is it anyway? According to the NDP, it aims to achieve these objectives by 2030: The NDP states that there should be a reduction in the number of people who live in households with a monthly income below R419 per person from 39 percent to zero and a reduction in inequality as measured by the Gini coefficient, from 0.69 to 0.6 by 2030. In addition, the NDP aims to ensure the achievement of a “decent standard of living” for all South Africans by 2030 based on housing, water, electricity and sanitation, safe and reliable public transport, quality education and skills development, safety and security, quality health care, social protection, employment, recreation and leisure, a clean environment and adequate nutrition. The NDP also states that government alone cannot provide a decent standard of living, and all social actors and partners across all sectors in society must act.