While contestation for the ANC KwaZulu-Natal chairperson position is intense, it has placed the incumbent Premier Sihle Zikalala in pole position to defeat his opponents. This is according to political analyst Xolani Dube, who said the unprecedented number of people intending to challenge Zikalala is a reflection of divisions within the camp opposed to the premier. The camp opposed to Zikalala is clearly not united, hence its failure to unite behind a single candidate who will challenge him. They have divided the vote to his advantage. ANC members tipped to contest the ANC provincial chairperson position include Finance MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube, Community Safety MEC Peggy Nkonyeni, KZN Legislature chair of chairs Siboniso Duma, businessperson Sandile Zungu and KZN provincial government former director-general Nhlanhla Ngidi. Dube said most of those tipped to contest the ANC provincial chairperson position are relying on the party’s radical economic transformation (RET) faction for support. Essentially, they are hoping that the RET faction aligned to former president Jacob Zuma will back them So, in the end, we have a situation where Zikalala is up against the rest. In any political situation, a candidate in Zikalala’s situation always emerges. The provincial conference will be held at the Durban’s Olive Convention Centre from Friday to Sunday. While a lot could change between now and Friday, there is speculation that Zikalala’s top-five slate includes the current ANC provincial secretary Mdumiseni Ntuli, Education MEC Kwazi Mshengu, Public Works MEC Jomo Sibiya and KZN Legislature speaker Nontembeko Boyce. On the other hand, the Duma slate is rumoured to include ANC Kokstad Mayor Bheki Mtolo, Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) MEC Sipho Hlomuka, former eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede and former Newcastle mayor Ntuthuko Mahlaba. However, the ANC eThekwini regional leadership supporting Gumede denied that she is part of a slate. ANC eThekwini regional secretary Musa Nciki said: As the ANC eThekwini region we don’t have a slate. Our position is that comrade Zandile and comrade Mdumiseni should be part of the provincial top-five leadership structure. While it is currently unclear how the full slates for the other candidates vying for the ANC provincial chairperson position look, there are strong indications that Dube-Ncube, Zungu and Ngidi will contest the ANC provincial chairperson position. ANC provincial spokesperson Nhlakanipho Ntombela agreed with Dube that most of the people tipped to contest the ANC provincial chair position will “fall by the wayside”. What we are currently seeing are individuals saying I prefer this or that comrade — this is something which the ANC has always encouraged. However, what people need to understand is that to actually stand as a candidate in the ANC is not child’s play. Just to qualify to stand, a candidate needs to be endorsed by 25% of the branches in the province. So clearly, it’s not possible for all those people who are being mentioned to get the 25% support. While the use of slates during the ANC elective conference has been the norm within the ruling party, it has created deep divisions within the organisation. In 2017, the divisions created by the culture of slates resulted in the ANC in KZN — which at the time was a kingmaker in the party’s national conferences — losing its kingmaker status. This resulted in the ANC KZN’s preferred party presidential candidate and current Cogta Minister, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, losing to the current president, Cyril Ramaphosa. Although the build-up to the upcoming provincial conference has created the picture that the ANC in KZN is more united compared to previous years, Dube said the party is still deeply divided. “The fact that they have about five or six people contesting the provincial chairperson position is proof of the divisions,” he said.clive.ndou@witness.co.za