To be frank, it was a demolition as South Africa slammed a mighty 333/5 batting first in the opening ODI against England at Chester-le-Street on Tuesday, as Rassie van der Dussen led the way with a fabulous century. Having lost the toss in sweltering, heatwave conditions in Durham, north-east England, the home side were ill-equipped to handle the clinically efficient Proteas batting line-up, a flat pitch and the soaring temperatures which reached in excess of 35°C, necessitating extra drinks breaks. ???? INNINGS CHANGERassie van der Dussen's 133, along with half-centuries by Aiden Markram (77) and Janneman Malan (57) ensures the #Proteas post 333/5 in their allotted 50 overs  ????️ Ball by ball https://t.co/KNz7vLG39F???? SuperSport Grandstand 201 #ENGvSA #BePartOfIt pic.twitter.com/KJgrL29KHX— Cricket South Africa (@OfficialCSA) July 19, 2022 Quinton de Kock (19) and Janneman Malan produced a solid start, putting on 35 in the first six-and-a-half overs before De Kock misjudged the lower bounce of a Sam Curran cutter and was bowled trying to pull. That brought Van der Dussen to the crease and he immediately set about his business building an innings of considerable substance. Without ever seemingly being in a rush, he drove beautifully through the covers and used the reverse-sweep to good effect as he brought up his half-century off just 45 balls. Malan had gone to a composed half-century himself, but began to lose steam in his innings and fell for 57 off 77 balls in the 26th over, holing out at cow-corner off Moeen Ali. The real destruction came when Aiden Markram joined Van der Dussen and the pair blasted 151 runs for the third wicket off just 123 balls. ALSO READ: Proteas in action against England in ODI series – four talking points Markram took a little while to find the right tempo to his innings, perhaps going a little too hard at the ball at first, but once he let his class take over, he was near unstoppable as he slammed 77 off 61 balls. Markram fell in the 46th over as South Africa looked to ram home their advantage, holing out to spinner Liam Livingstone, and Van der Dussen fell two balls later to the same bowler, bowled by another delivery that skidded through low. But by then Van der Dussen had plundered 133 off 117 balls, his ODI stats reaching for the heavens as he has now scored 1498 runs in 30 innings at an average of 74.90 and a strike-rate of 90.56. David Miller scored a rather scratchy 24 not out off 14 balls and there was some reward for the persevering Brydon Carse, who comes from South Africa, as he dismissed Heinrich Klaasen (12).