Two teenage girls, aged 14, from Lusikisiki village, in the Easten Cape were rescued after being allegedly trafficked and sold to men in their 60s in Durban. According to the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Social Development (DSD), the girls, who are cousins, were allegedly fetched from their homes by one of the child’s mother who sold them to men in their 60s to marry in Matsheketshe village, in Umkhomazi, south of Durban. Department spokesperson, Mhlaba Memela, said the act drew consternation from members of the community after noticing the two young girls staying with older men. He said DSD was informed by a concerned community member at the weekend, which prompted the intervention of social workers and police. “The girls were found to have been performing duties for these men, including washing, cooking and cleaning the houses. It is alleged that the girls were also sharing bedrooms with these men. Police arrested the mother (who sold the children to older men) and another 69-year-old man, while the other men, aged 59, managed to escape. He said one of the teenagers also alleged that she was raped and a case was opened with Umkhomazi police station. On Monday the mother of one of the teens and a 69-year-old man briefly appeared in the Scottburgh Magistrate’s Court, on abduction charges. The case was adjourned to July 8 for a formal bail application. KZN Social Development MEC, Nonhlanhla Khoza, has issued a stern warning to parents who continue to disregard children’s rights saying they will face the wrath of the law. She condemned the act of a mother who allegedly sold children to older men in exchange for lobola. Khoza said it was unfortunate that a mother, who was supposed to have protected children from such evil, had become an alleged accomplice. This reflects how morals have undergone a radical decline to an extent that people could sell their children. We are baffled by this. We strongly believe that the rule of law, one of the basic tenets of our hard-fought democracy, must prevail,” she said. Khoza said police must leave no stone unturned in dealing with this case to ensure that people uphold the rule of law. “We commend the police and social workers for their swift reaction in apprehending two suspects in this case. However, we want to urge our law enforcement agencies to track down the suspect who escaped right under their noses,” she said. The MEC said the justice system must send a clear message to criminals that such odious characters involved in such criminality would not be tolerated. The two girls have been sheltered in a Youth and Child Care Centre and are receiving psycho-social support. The Department is also working on a plan to reunite the children with their families.