The Durban July is back in full swing, and the who’s who of celebrities and influencers flocked to the Greyville Racecourse in KwaZulu-Natal on Saturday to be a part of the festivities. The famous faces included Boity Thulo, Somizi Mhlongo, Jessica Nkosi, Nandi Madida and Thembi Seete.  All eyes were obviously first on the races, and Filly Sparkling Water won the Hollywoodbets Durban July before the attention turned towards the fashion on display. READ NEXT: In pics: Sparkling Water fizzes to victory at Durban July The Durban July 2022 theme was “Show Me The Honey” and many fashionistas interpreted the floral aspect of the theme, with plenty of splashes of gold, and queen bees.  As this was the first full-scale July since 2019, the stars dripped in their best locally designed outfits with plenty more hits than misses than in previous years.  Minnie Dlamini Having previously collaborated with JessicaJane in Paris Fashion Week earlier this year, Minnie told The Citizen the designer wanted to make her something for the July and replicate a similar look and feel from her latest fashion collection. RELATED: Minnie Dlamini to model in JessicaJane show at Paris Fashion Week “Well, I thought from the theme the floral, honey made sense and in terms of the aesthetic I wanted to go classic, take it back to the races… Something that reminded me of how Durban July used to be and how incredible the fashion was.” Details of @MinnieDlamini classic Jessica Jane dress #durbanjuly2022#HDJ2022 @Citi_Life_ @TheCitizen_News pic.twitter.com/CnTlppvJvN— Sandi8 (@Sandiside) July 2, 2022 The Durban-born media personality adds she loves coming back home and is happy the event is back to its glory days.  The content creator and influencer Nadia Jaftha arrived in style, in a dress by BME Designs ,alongside her partner, reality star from Love Island South Africa, Xaiver Haupt.  Seete, currently popular for her role as Gladys on Gomora, glowed in a Scalo Designs suit.  Rapper and businesswoman Boity turned heads in a Keys Fashion mini dress with exaggerated long sleeves and gold studded details.  She told us the dress is inspired by queen bees and “royalty,” which explains why she had a crown to complete her look.  Making these customised dresses can take time, however, Boity praised Keys Fashion for the speed of making the dress, as it was ready days prior.   “Those elements are important and crucial for preparing for events such as these.”  Fans are waiting for Boity to release new music but the rapper said this will take time as she has her eyes on being back on television.  YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Pics: Race fans show off their threads, as Durban July proves city’s recovered from Covid “If something phenomenal comes around I won’t reject it, and if I am paid what I want, then I will take it.” Boity at Durban July #HDJ2022#durbanjuly2022@Citi_Life_ @TheCitizen_News pic.twitter.com/1oYdFWjXfb— Sandi8 (@Sandiside) July 2, 2022 Keys Fashion was one of the popular choices for celebrities on the day, as Nandi also chose the designer for the July. In a gown that was intricate and well-thought out, from the crown to the styling of her hair cut, Nandi glowed as a detailed honey bee. Nandi Madida at Durban July#durbanjuly2022@Citi_Life_ @TheCitizen_News pic.twitter.com/ehA7546UKA— Sandi8 (@Sandiside) July 2, 2022 Mohale looked dapper in a Prince Shulz suit.