A Free State man who videoed the dramatic truck accident on the N3 on Wednesday night, described the incident as surreal. Speaking to The Witness on Thursday, the man, who asked not to be named, said that he could see from far up the hill that something was wrong with the truck, even before it reached the steep Town Hill section in Pietermaritzburg. I was coming up to the top of Town Hill and this guy just went straight past. He alleged that the driver had more than enough time to do something if he felt that he was in trouble, or had noticed that the brakes were smoking.  When you get to where it levels out, just before those cameras and where the concrete barrier is, there is an arrestor bed there and a yellow and black chevron board, where he could’ve pulled in if he was in trouble. He could’ve also pulled in to get behind the other trucks because there were big gaps between them but he kind of went left and then he carried on going right onto the fast lane. The man said that he overtook a Hilux that was in front of him and tried flashing down and hooting at the driver to get him to slow down but more and more smoke started coming from his brakes and that’s when he dropped back and started filming the video.  “His brakes were smoking from more than halfway down Town Hill,” said the man. The video of the crash, which went viral, ends just after the crash and the man can be seen getting out of his vehicle before the video ends. “At that moment, it was pretty surreal but I was fairly calm because I knew something was going to happen from way up,” said the man. He added that he got out of his car and walked down to the truck. I went to the driver of the truck that had that yellow petrol tank on it, and his whole cab was damaged but he was trying to get out and he was full of blood. I ran back to my car, and got my first aid kit, I came back, put my rubber gloves on, ready to try and bandage his head but the truck driver was not there, so I got up on the cab and saw him trying to get his wallet and trying to phone someone. I asked him if he was okay and he said he was fine. ALSO READ | Truck Driver seriously injured in multi-vehicle crash on N3 He said that someone then said emergency services were on their way and then a woman who was behind him ran across the road to check on the driver who caused the accident. He added that it was a miracle that no one else was hurt due to the severity of the accident. The man said that he often drives from the Free State to KwaZulu-Natal and that speeding is an issue with truck drivers from all over and not just in Pietermaritzburg. Apparently, a week or two ago, 12 people died when a truck hit a taxi on that exact same spot. I think that maybe if there were traffic police at the top enforcing truck drivers to stop at the top, this wouldn’t have happened. Police and traffic inspectorates should get involved and they should impose bigger fines on truck companies and drivers who do not stop. KwaZulu-Natal department of transport spokesperson, Kwanele Ncalane, told The Witness that they are concerned about the number of accidents that take place on the N3 near Town Hill and the Peter Brown offramp. He said they have set up a number of engagements with the South African National Roads Agency (Sanral) to discuss possible safety measures that could be implemented in the area. Ncalane said factors that are contributing to these accidents was the failure to follow signage, excessive speeding and intolerance.  There is construction of the road going on there and there is proper visible signage that is directing people to slow down and on the reduction of lanes and so forth but people are just ignoring those signs. About the accident that took place on Wednesday evening, I was told that the truck had brake failure, but still it was speeding excessively and it nearly caused a catastrophe in that area. However, another source with knowledge of the incident, said the truck’s brakes had likely not failed and were merely smoking because the truck was in the wrong gear. Ncalane said the department, working together with Sanral, have put up mobile traffic robots and are stationing traffic police in accident hotspots.  Our view is to have the traffic officers on duty 24 hours but the problem is that we do not have a 24 hour shift, so they are rotating on certain hours. We are also in discussion with Sanral to explore further technology that will monitor the movement of cars in that area. Sanral was not available for comment by the time of publication. • Additional reporting by Lethiwe Makhanya.