The Okhahlamba Municipality is helping young people plant marijuana (dagga) to combat unemployment in the area. Okhohlamba, a semi-rural area on the north of KwaZulu-Natal, has a long and proud history with the plant. In 1956, there was a war between the Amangwane tribe and the apartheid police in Ingoba. That war was over the control of the weed production in the area. Okhahlamba, with its dry terrain and a perpetual supply of sunlight, was and still is the ideal place to grow weed. Following that war, several Amangwane soldiers and civilians were killed and 22 soldiers were sentenced to death in the Pretoria High Court by the apartheid government. In 1957, the soldiers were hanged and buried in Pretoria. Those soldiers have come to be known as the Ngoba 22. “They were fighting for their rights and their right to grow weed,” said Okhahlamba Mayor Vikizitha Mlotshwa. Mlotshwa said the case of the Ngoba 22 was not discussed during the Truth and Reconciliation Commission hearings. As a result, Mlotshwa said families of the Ngoba 22 did not have proper closure and were not able to successfully lobby the national government for the remains of the soldiers. That is up until now. Mlotshwa said the municipality has now successfully managed to get permission to exhume their bodies and rebury them in their home town of Bergville. “Everything has been done so far, arrangements and permits have been organised. A geo-tech study has been undertaken and Icebolethu is the funeral parlour that will do the burial,” he said. On Monday, a team will be dispatched to Pretoria to start digging for the remains with the National Prosecuting Agency overseeing the process. Mlotshwa said a forensic expert will carry and clean the bones before they are transported to Bergville. The remains are expected to be welcomed back in a big ceremony next Friday, providing that everything goes according to schedule.  In keeping with the legacy of the Ngoba 22, the municipality has begun an initiative to teach young people in the area how to grow and sell dagga. Mlotshwa said this is also an empowering initiative and one of the creative ways the municipality is trying to deal with the high number of youth unemployment in the area. Mlotshwa said this initiative has been in the works since dagga was made legal in 2018. Mlotshwa said all the necessary permits and licences regarding the growing of marijuana have been secured. The municipality has set aside land and begun growing the marijuana with the first harvest expected in the next couple of months.