The industrial action at the South African Revenue Service (SARS) by labour unions; Public Servants Association (PSA) and National Education, Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu), resumed on Tuesday. This after unions rejected the 1.39% wage increment proposed by SARS. The unions said their members will not report for work indefinitely until SARS makes a better offer and a consensus is reached. They embarked on a full blown strike on 25 and 26 May demanding a wage increase of 12%, however, SARS proposed a 1.39% increase, and the unions rejected this revised offer. Nehawu spokesperson, Lwazi Nkolozi, said the wage negotiations with SARS bore no fruits. “We then consulted widely with our members and they still rejected that 1.39% offer. They resolved that we should continue with the strike,” said Nkolozi. He said there have been numerous engagements, but still could not reach an agreement. “We knew what SARS was doing, they were just going around [in] cycles, not willing to come to the table to offer something concrete.” “In fact, SARS was so arrogant when we went to the CCMA, they bluntly told us that they are offering us a 0% increment, and the CCMA found that the situation had reached a deadlock and they ultimately issued us a certificate for a strike,” said Nkolozi. These are the demands tabled by the unions: • Salaries be adjusted using October 2021 CPI of 5% + 7%, across the board for employees within the Bargaining Unit. • A Single Term agreement and implementation date of 1st April 2022 • On Medical Aid and Housing Allowance, full and equal medical aid and housing allowance for all employees. • An introduction of Pandemic leave of 10 working days per annum. • A R2000 gift (token of appreciation) to all employees • Pay Progression – An annual adjustment upwards on the applicable pay band of 1.5% where the employee has met the required performance standard. SARS adviced tax payers to make use of their digital platform amid the industrial strike which led to some of their branches closed. NOW READ: Nehawu affiliated workers, Sars nowhere near striking a deal