Residents surrounding Hluhluwe Imfolozi Park in Ulundi said they have been living in fear of being mauled or killed by a pride of lions that allegedly escaped from the park.  The chairperson of Okhukho Community Civil Organisation, Msizi Myaka, said they had recorded about 30 cases where livestock were attacked by these lions. He said these lions were no longer just a threat to residents at Okhukho but to surrounding areas as well. Myaka said they’ve always had issues with wild animals escaping from the park.  He said there was a huge issue with the park’s fence and nothing had been done to fix it. He said a child was killed by wild animals that escaped from the park last December.  He added nothing had been done since then about the promises that were made by MEC for economic Development Tourism and Environmental Affairs, Ravi Pillay. He said they were now calling upon Hluhluwe Imfolozi Park management and Ezemvelo Wildlife to uphold section 24 of the Constitution which guarantees a healthy environment to every person.  “These lions still haven’t been found and they are now seen further from Okhukho. Yesterday [Monday] we heard, one lion was seen around James Nxumalo High School yet the department keeps on telling us that these lions have a tracker. If so, then why haven’t they located them,” said Myaka. ALSO READ | Rogue KZN lion killed He said they first became aware of these lions attacking their livestock last Tuesday when one of the cattle was killed.  Myaka said in 2020, three elephants escaped from the park and walked close to 50 kilometres from the Hluhluwe Imfolozi Park to the residential areas.  “These elephants were roaming around residential areas and even close to the school. They had to be killed,” said Myaka. He added these elephants were followed by 14 lions that also escaped in 2019. “This human rights violation is unprecedented and there is a duty in terms of section 237 of the Constitutional which requires that all constitutional obligation must be performed diligently without a delay,” said Myaka. Heinz de Boer, DA’s economic development, tourism and environmental affairs spokesperson said he had received numerous complaints about two lions that had escaped from the park over the weekend. These lions have been in and out of the park attacking livestock, according to the residents in the nearby village. The lions’ escape point is near the river bed where they simply dig underneath the fence to make their way out He said the two were chased back into the park but it was common for animals to escape from the park. “Ezemvelo needs to find at least R40 million to cover 165 km of fencing. The western boundary is the problem because there’s at least 15 to 16 km of gap [loose fence] because elephants push against it, and poachers are not helping the situation,” he said. MEC Ravi Pillay’s spokesperson Angel Sibisi said communities from two villages around the park have raised a number of concerns regarding the coexistence of the park and the villagers. Sibisi said among the issues they raised was the lions that feasted on their livestock. “The villages were very much concerned about the fence and when we looked around we found some areas that were not satisfactory in terms of their strengths to prevent the animals from escaping. Five lions escaped on Tuesday and again around the early hours of Thursday morning. They killed five cattle and our officials have engaged with the owners. Compensation for their loss will be paid on July 26,” said Sibisi. ALSO READ | Talks ongoing at Hluhluwe iMfolozi Park after violent protests She said there is a long-term plan to replace the fence but due to budgetary constraints the department will fix those areas that need urgent attention in the meantime as a short-term solution.  She said employment opportunities for the locals was another concern, followed by incompetent boards that have been appointed for Ezemvelo over the years. On employment, the MEC assured the villages that opportunities will be announced when they become available. “For now 104 people were employed to guard the fence. Ten are permanent while others are contractual. The department is also working on a compensation contract in order for cases of livestock loss to be resolved amicably,” she said. The department will be looking at how the boards are appointed because the villages also raised a concern about having people who do not have their interest but sit on the Ezemvelo board.  “The villagers said board members did not reside in the area so the department will look into that too,” she said. *Additional reporting by Chris Ndaliso