The ANC KwaZulu-Natal provincial leadership, which is pushing for the scrapping of the party’s step-aside policy, is in grave danger of failing its first test. This is after ANC leadership from other provinces have indicated that they would not support KZN’s position on the scrapping of the step-aside policy, stipulating that party members facing criminal charges should step down from both their ANC and government positions. According to the newly-elected KZN provincial leadership, the policy is causing divisions within the party as there are perceptions that it is being used to purge those opposed to the ANC’s dominant faction led by President Cyril Ramaphosa. ALSO READ | Step-aside debate heats up The KZN ANC provincial leadership needs the support of other provinces to get the policy scrapped. However, the ANC’s leaders from the Eastern Cape, Limpopo and Mpumalanga have indicated that they will not back the KZN leadership’s position at the party’s national policy conference, which is currently underway in Johannesburg. ANC Eastern Cape provincial chairperson, Oscar Mabuyane — who is also the Premier, said delegates representing the province at the policy conference were given a mandate to voice their support for the policy — which was crafted at the party’s 2017 national conference.  We reaffirm the resolution of the ANC national conference. Mabuyane, who described calls for the scrapping of the step-aside policy as “adventurous” and “reckless”, said the Eastern Cape wanted to see the policy strengthened. Initially, the policy was silent on whether ANC members facing criminal charges were also barred from contesting leadership positions within the party. This vacuum resulted in former eThekwini Municipality mayor, Zandile Gumede, being elected ANC eThekwini regional chairperson during the party’s regional elective conference in April. This was despite the fact that Gumede is facing corruption charges in connection with the municipality’s solid waste tenders awarded during her tenure as eThekwini mayor. Following an outcry over Gumede’s election, the ANC national executive committee (NEC) then amended the step-aside policy so it could bar members facing criminal charges from contesting any leadership positions within the party. ALSO READ | KZN ANC pushing for stance against step-aside rule While ANC Limpopo provincial chairperson, Stan Mathabatha, indicated that the province does not support the scrapping of the step-aside policy, he said party members in the province are concerned that there could be loopholes in the policy.  The fact that it keeps on being amended is proof that it is not a watertight document. That’s why we want the policy to be refined. The Mpumalanga province said it too wants the policy to be reviewed. According to the policy, ANC members facing criminal charges should submit themselves to the integrity commission — which after assessing the seriousness of the charges, would then make a ruling on whether the affected member should step aside. ANC head of policy, Jeff Radebe, said the party has also referred ANC members implicated at the Zondo Commission which investigated state capture and corruption, to the ANC’s integrity commission – which has been given six months to make recommendations on the commission’s findings. ALSO READ | ANC’s step-aside resolution is proving to be a ‘disaster’ Economic transformation, the country’s energy crisis and the high food prices are among some of the issues which will be discussed at the ANC national policy conference. The conference, which is being held at Nasrec in Johannesburg, closes on Sunday.