SOCCER 10 POOL OF THE DAYSaturday 9 July S10 V3 New York RB moved to the top of Major League Soccer’s Eastern Conference last weekend but will find it hard to keep up the lead as they have a difficult game away at FC Cincinnati. More details at www.soccer6.co.za. M1 Seattle Sounders vs Portland Timbers: Keenly contested derby clash which has not seen a home winner in the last five clashes. Seattle lost 2-0 at home to Portland last August.M2 Atlanta United vs Austin FC: A first meeting between the two clubs. Austin are up to second in the Western Conference but Atlanta are struggling to get themselves into a playoff berthM3 Charlotte FC vs Nashville SC: Charlotte’s last five home game have seen three victories and two defeats. Nashville have won their last two away games in MLS action, both with a 3-1 scoreline.M4 FC Cincinnati vs New York RB: Cincinnati scored four goals in their last home game and still did not win. NYRB have won on three of their last four visits to Cincinnati.M5 CF Montreal vs Sporting Kansas City: Montreal suffered a 7-1 loss in their last meeting with Kansas City, but it was away in March 2019. The Canadian club are now front runners in the MLS Eastern Conference.M6 Toronto FC vs San Jose Earthquakes: This is the third home game in a row for Toronto, who lost the previous two to Columbus and Seattle. Earthquakes have not had any away success this season and sit bottom of their MLS conference.M7 Chicago Fire vs Columbus Crew: Fire have a home record of 20 wins, 13 draws and six defeats in 39 past visits by the Crew.M8 Orlando City vs Inter Miami: A derby game in Florida where in May the two sides met in cup competition and drew 1-1. Their two clashes before that last season already ended in stalemates.M9 Houston Dynamo vs FC Dallas: There have been 48 past Texas derbies between these sides with Houston winning 14, Dallas 18 and 16 draws. Dallas have won six of 25 past trips to Houston.M10 Real Salt Lake vs Colorado Rapids: Real Salt Lake have scored three goals in each of their last two home games against the Rapids but in 2020 lost 5-0 at home to the side from Colorado. Suggested permutation:R32.00 1,2 x 1,2 x 1 x 2,3 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 1,2 x 1