Hundreds of ANC delegates have made their way to Durban for what they hope will be a “peaceful” KZN elective conference, including the Taliban group who are wearing headscarves.  The ANC three-day provincial elective conference kicked off on Friday morning.  While official proceedings were expected to start at 10 am at the conference venue, many voting delegates were still being registered.  Over at the People’s Park, delegates from across the province are being accredited.  Conspicuously, there is a group of delegates wearing head scarves that identify themselves as the Middle-east terrorist group, The Taliban.  Vincent Myeni, a member of the ANC Taliban faction from the Moses Mabhida region, told The Witness that they identify with the group and its goal for regime change in their respective countries.  At the conference venue, the Olive Convention Centre, there is a heavy police presence with access being strictly limited to accredited personnel.  Jeff Radebe, a member of the ANC national executive committee, said, “I think it’s high time that conferences of the ANC are peaceful”.  “What is very important are the policies of the organisation so that we are able to do what the people of South Africa expect us to. That is to build a better life for all and stop youth unemployment that is rife,” he said.  Radebe is attending the conference as a non-voting delegate to oversee the proceedings. On a political level, Myeni said the Taliban faction will be backing Sboniso Duma for ANC KZN chairperson and Bheki Mtolo as secretary.  “We feel that it is time we change the leadership of the ANC up until we change people’s lives,” he said.  “The ANC represents change and a better life for all, if we have an ANC leadership that is no longer advancing the cause of change for our people – we can no longer have that leadership.” Sandile Mkhwananzi, who came all the way from oPhongolo, said he was impressed with the fact that the registration process has so far been peaceful. “I got my tag at about 8 am, everything has been smooth. “This is the ANC we know, not the one where people fight each other,” he said.