Six lions, that have been terrorising residents living near the Hluhluwe Imfolozi Park in Ulundi, were killed on Saturday by Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife. The lions were part of the pride that escaped from the park about a week ago and had killed at least six cows in the Okhukho area. Residents said they had seen these lions at close range and were concerned they would soon kill a human being. ALSO READ | Pride of lions escape Hluhluwe Imfolozi Park Ezemvelo spokesperson, Musa Mtambo, on Sunday said the figure of cattle killed may rise as some community members still have to take stock of their cows. “Most of them (residents) have recently been living in fear for their lives, which made them scared of even venturing to the areas they use as pastures for their livestock. “The community’s anger was mounting as it was feared that the lions had lost the fear of human beings,” said Mtambo. He said Ezemvelo flew two residents from Nqulwane and another from Okhukho to show them the six lions that had been killed. Mtambo said only two carcasses that were in an area that was not easily accessible could be seen. The other four carcasses had been removed by community members for their use. Mtambo said the decision to destroy this pride of lion was taken following several community protests that resulted in a group of residents cutting the fence and staging a sit-in inside the Hluhluwe Imfolozi Park. “They threatened to not only sit inside Hluhluwe Imfolozi Park until the MEC resolved their issues but also to hunt and kill any lions they saw. The group demanded to meet with the MEC for Economic Development, Tourism, and Environmental Affairs, Ravi Pillay. They met the MEC on Tuesday and several resolutions were taken,” said Mtambo. The resolutions taken were that the pride should be destroyed as it was feared that the lions might soon attack people and for a plan to repair the park fence. Chairperson of Okhukho Community Civic Organisation, Msizi Myaka, said there was a feast on Saturday with residents helping themselves to the meat from the dead lions. Ezemvelo doesn’t seem to know how many lions escaped from the park. We are still in fear because there might still be more lions out there since they don’t have a system to monitor how many have escaped. As long as they haven’t closed spaces in the fence, more lions will escape.” One of the residents, Sikinyoni Buthelezi, said he was few metres away from the lions on Friday but was lucky because Ezemvelo had already killed them.