Organisers of the protest which took place outside former president Jacob Zuma’s Nkandla home shortly before his arrest in July last year, have defended the illegal gathering. The protest which saw some of Zuma supporters vowing to “die” for the former president, were soon followed by lootings, the destruction of property and the death of more than 300 people. Radical economic transformation (RET) chairperson, Nkosentsha Shezi — who was one of the protest’s organisers, last week said the demonstrations provided “angry” citizens with an outlet to “release” their anger. “There is no doubt that the warrant of arrest issued against president Zuma was an insult, not only to him, but to ordinary citizens who continue to view him as their hero. ALSO READ | KwaZulu-Natal’s ANC leaders gather at Zuma’s home “Had people stayed at home, the anger would have spilled onto the streets and caused much more destruction than we saw during the looting. So, what we tried to do was to provide leadership,” he said. A former ANC Youth League (ANCYL) leader, Shezi and other Zuma supporters from eThekwini travelled to Nkandla in a convoy. Once in Nkandla, they lined up speakers — who addressed a large crowd which had gathered outside the former president’s home in violation of Covid-19 regulations. Illegal acts which took place outside Zuma’s home included members of the public firing shots in the air during the protests. ALSO READ | Zuma supporters converge in Nkandla Shortly after Zuma’s arrest, Nkandla community members — some of whom were part of the protest outside the former president’s home, blocked roads and threatened motorists with violence. In Empangeni, the Zuma supporters used trucks to block roads. A few hours later, the protests — which had spread to other parts of the KwaZulu-Natal province, degenerated into looting and the destruction of property. However, last week Shezi insisted that the protest outside Zuma’s home should be separated from the looting and destruction of property which followed. “As much as people were calling for Zuma to be left alone, others used his arrest to express their anger over unemployment, the deepening poverty and the growing gulf between the rich and the poor.” ALSO READ | Jacob Zuma arrives back home to Nkandla He said as the organisers of the protest which was happening outside Zuma’s home, there was little they could do about those frustrated by poverty and unemployment. “The ANC — which is the organisation which has the power to change government policies so that they could empower the poor, is the only political party which is in a position to stop that kind of looting and destruction of property. “However, as you would know, the ANC leadership failed to come out and address the protesters. It’s ANC leaders who are to blame for the looting which took place in July,” he said. Former Mkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) spokesperson Carl Niehaus, who during the protest outside Zuma’s house threatened that MK soldiers would “form a human wall” to prevent police from arresting the former president, last week said he too cannot be blamed for the looting that followed.