It is no secret that the Duke of Cambridge, Prince William was once caught up in an infidelity scandal after he allegedly cheated on his wife and the mother of his three children, Kate Middleton.  Although the scandal was somehow contained and swept under the carpet, the oldest son of the late Princess Diana, has found himself as the source of a controversial trending topic on social media this week, for his past and possibly present proclivities.  This comes after an anonymous source reached out to the infamous gossip Instagram page, Deux Moi to dish out on the details and reasons for William seeking attention from women outside of his marriage.  According to the source, the Duke of Cambridge has always been fond of the sexual activity called “pegging”, but Middelton has refused to engage in the activity. “At a recent media party, I was told the real reason for the affair was the royal’s love of pegging, which the wife is far too old fashioned to engage in,” said the source. ALSO READ: Royal news: Meghan and Harry’s mansion targeted, Prince George turns 9 Well, pegging refers to the sexual activity where someone (usually the woman) performs anal sex on someone else (the man) with the use of a strap-on dildo. The source revealed that because the wife of the future king is too old fashioned to explore all avenues of pleasure with her husband, they have mutually agreed that he may get his sexual needs fulfilled elsewhere, as long as things do not get emotional.  “The wife doesn’t mind her, and in fact prefers her husband getting his sexual needs fulfilled elsewhere, as long as things don’t become emotional, which was the case with the last woman,” said the source. Since the allegations were made public, royal fans have been up in arms, not by the fact that Prince William has found it hard to stay faithful to his wife of 11 years, or that he enjoys exploring all avenues of sexual pleasure with his wife and other women. Royal fans believe that Kate and William have spent years using Prince Harry and his wife Meghan Markle as a distraction from their complicated marriage and marital affairs being spoken about on public platforms and in the media.