The election of the new ANC KwaZulu-Natal leadership could spell trouble for the party’s Moses Mabhida regional top brass led by Msunduzi Municipality mayor, Mzimkhulu Thebolla. The election of the new ANC provincial leadership headed by senior KZN Legislature MPL, Siboniso Duma, who defeated premier Sihle Zikalala at the party’s elective conference held over the weekend, also swept into power members of the ANC Moses Mabhida region’s bloc who have been opposed to Thebolla and his regional executive committee (REC). Education MEC, Kwazi Mshengu, KZN Legislature Chief Whip, Super Zuma, former ANC regional secretary, Mzi Zuma, who is currently the Mgungundlovu District Municipality mayor, and ANC Msunduzi ward 32 branch chairperson, Vincent Myeni — all of whom are from the region — were elected to the ANC’s influential provincial executive committee (PEC). Apart from Mshengu, the other three ANC regional heavyweights Super Zuma, Mzi Zuma and Myeni, are part of an influential bloc in the region which has been calling for leadership changes in the ANC in KZN.Members of the REC led by Thebolla wanted the former ANC provincial top brass led by Zikalala to be re-elected. Thebolla and members of the Moses Mabhida REC, ended up on the losing side following Zikalala’s defeat. Perceived as key supporters of former president Jacob Zuma in the region, Super Zuma, Mzi Zuma and Myeni, were also on the opposite side to Richmond mayor, Siminenkosi Ndlovu, who was elected regional secretary at the ANC’s December regional conference. There have been complaints from some ANC members in the Moses Mabhida Region that irregularities had crept in during the conference in which Thebolla and Ndlovu were elected. While the complaints were dismissed by the ANC provincial leadership which was voted out of power over the weekend, Thebolla and Ndlovu’s opponents are planning to revive the disputes now that there is a new party provincial leadership at the helm. A source within the camp opposed to Thebolla and Ndlovu confirmed that the complaints will be brought to the attention of the newly-elected ANC provincial leadership. Our view is that the previous ANC provincial leadership failed to properly deal with the complaints. The previous leadership did not want the regional conference to reconvene because they wanted the leadership which emerged at the Moses Mabhida regional conference to support them at the provincial conference. “Given that the provincial leadership which has been giving us a run around is gone, we are confident that the new ANC provincial leadership will get to the bottom of our complaints,” the ANC member said. However, Thebolla, who spoke to The Witness on the sidelines of the weekend ANC provincial conference at Durban’s Olive Convention Centre, denied that there is bad blood between the regional executive committee, and the bulk of the regional leaders who have been elected into the PEC. It’s a well-known fact that ANC members would have different perspectives during the build-up to any conference. However, the truth which some people don’t want to acknowledge is that once the conference is over, all ANC members unite and put behind the differences they had when they went to conference. This is precisely what happened here in Moses Mabhida — after the regional conference, we united. “Even at this provincial conference, we as the Moses Mabhida region agreed to support all the comrades from our region who were contesting PEC positions. So, it can’t be true that there are ANC members in this region who belong to this or that camp — we are a one united ANC region,” Thebolla said.