While 3,3 % will not translate into a lot of money in terms of the salary hike mooted for Msunduzi councillors, many residents are left wondering why they deserve any increase at all.  If their pay hikes were to be seen as a reflection of the level of service delivery in the city, it is easy to understand why people feel these are not justified.   The call centre changes numbers so often it’s difficult to keep up and as a result frustrated residents are left calling numbers that either no longer exist or are simply never answered. Residents are understandably miffed that their city looks like a dump. The potholes on our streets are as deep as the unchecked waterspouts coming from numerous underground pipes are high.  The call centre changes numbers so often it’s difficult to keep up and as a result frustrated residents are left calling numbers that either no longer exist or are simply never answered.  The state of our municipality’s finances are so parlous that it beggars belief that they have any money they can part with in good conscience to be paid over to councillors as increases.  ALSO READ | Msunduzi Municipality proposes salary hike for City staff, steep tariff hikes for residents The fact that the City remains under administration is evidence enough that adequate headway has not been made. If there had been progress that residents could see and appreciate, no one would begrudge the councillors an increase.  If water supply was constant and substations reliable, residents would all applaud their reward for this.  If they knew that meaningful improvements were taking place and that there was planning being done for a better, brighter Pietermaritzburg for all, people would be jostling to be first in line to shake their hands. Instead, an increase for councillors leaves a bad taste in the mouths of city dwellers who feel they are unheard, neglected and, at times, downright abused. Our rates seem to disappear into thin air when basic service delivery is asked for. For the residents on the receiving end of appalling service, it seems that increases are simply not deserved. It’s the principle of the thing, isn’t it?