Former president Jacob Zuma’s supporters will be busing protesters from KZN to Johannesburg for the demonstration aimed at dislodging President Cyril Ramaphosa from power.  The protest, to be held outside the ANC’s Luthuli House headquarters, will take place on Friday. According to the Zuma supporters, transport has been arranged to ferry the protesters from Durban to Johannesburg.  Ramaphosa has, since his election as ANC president during the party’s 2017 national conference, been embroiled in a power struggle with Zuma supporters. According to a complaint laid by former spy boss Arthur Fraser with the police, the president concealed a 2020 robbery that took place at his Phala Phala farm.  Despite robbers having made off with a large sum of money in U.S. dollars, Fraser said in his affidavit to the police that Ramaphosa attempted to keep the robbery a secret by not opening a criminal case against the thieves. ALSO READ | Jacob Zuma supporters picket outside Durban court Ramaphosa has cited the sub judice rule, declining to answer questions on the robbery. Radical economic transformation (RET) chairperson Nkosentsha Shezi, a staunch Zuma supporter, said: “Our message is very simple —Ramaphosa should step aside.”  Last month, Shezi and other Zuma supporters opened gender-based violence charges against Ramaphosa following claims that a domestic worker, who allegedly assisted the Phala Phala farm robbers, was tortured by police linked to Ramaphosa’s presidential protection unit. The protest against Ramaphosa will add more pressure on the embattled president, who is currently at the receiving end of public anger over the country’s power outages, rising fuel prices and deepening poverty and unemployment. ALSO READ | ‘Arrest Ramaphosa … or else we will,’ says ANC’s RET faction Ramaphosa’s troubles erupt a few months away from the ANC’s December national elective conference where he is widely expected to seek a second term as party president.  While he still enjoys support within the ANC, there has been speculation that pressure from organisations such as the RET, opposition parties and civil society, could see Ramaphosa step down. ANC liberation struggle veteran, Mavuso Msimang, has urged Ramaphosa to consider stepping down in the face of the Phala Phala farm scandal.  I really think it would have been good for the leadership of the party to ask him to just move to the side until his problem is resolved and, in his stead, allow somebody else to run the party.