To alleviate the plight of not having access to running water, an Elandskop businessman has allowed residents to fetch borehole water from his pharmacy for free. As part of giving back to the community for their continual support, Dr. Sihle Ngobese, of Siyo Medical Assistance Centre, has embarked on an initiative to provide water to residents who have gone two years without running water in their taps. The initiative started last Thursday. “We started this initiative after realising that a borehole can supply numerous people with water. Our intention is for people not to have to wait hours for a water tanker. They should just come to the centre,” said Ngobese, adding that he believes in giving back to the community. “Our centre is among the community, and we have been receiving enormous support since we opened in 2013. “People will continue to receive water whenever [they need it], up until government sorts out the water crisis in this area. It has been a long time and the water issue has not been sorted out, so that is why I reached out and decided to provide these residents with water.” Resident Nkululeko Ngcobo said the municipal officials told them there is a shortage of water in the dams due to population growth over the years. “We really don’t believe that since there are areas within the ward where water returned after some time. You can’t depend on water tankers. Sometimes the driver goes to a certain area and ends up not coming to Elandskop. What Dr. Ngobese is doing is going to make a huge difference in our lives. We will keep an eye on this borehole to ensure that no one sells this water. We are grateful for this,” said Ngcobo. Msunduzi Municipality spokesperson, Ntobeko Mkhize, said they are aware of the challenge experienced by the Vulindlela community in relation to water supply and they continue to supply the community with water through water tankers in an effort to ensure uninterrupted water supply. “The effects of old infrastructure, theft of water through illegal connections and vandalism of the water infrastructure have put a strain on the municipality. “To address these challenges, the municipality has developed innovative measures to prevent water losses using technology, some of these measures as unveiled by the deputy mayor Mxolisi Mkhize in March during a media/ public briefing include smart meters and water leak detectors. “Together with Umgeni Water there is a project being implemented in Vulindlela to ensure that water challenges are brought to an end,” said Mkhize.