Former president Jacob Zuma’s supporters, who will be a formidable voting block at the ANC’s KwaZulu-Natal elective conference, are keeping their cards close to their chest on who they will be backing in the race to elect the party’s provincial leader. They dismissed the speculation that Zuma and his supporters will endorse one of the five candidates who will be standing against the Sihle Zikalala in the ANC provincial leadership race. Nkosentsha Shezi, the chairperson of the radical economic transformation (RET) faction supporting Zuma, said their delegates will back any candidate willing to expedite the implementation of the party’s radical economic transformation policy and assist in the battle to “reclaim the ANC from its current pro-big business leaders”. What we will be looking out for is a strong candidate who has the courage to champion the ANC’s 2017 national conference’s radical economic transformation resolution. We are also aware that the counter revolutionary forces who have hijacked the ANC at national level are committed to their mission to persecute and vilify President Zuma. So, the candidate who will emerge at the ANC provincial conference should be the kind of person who will have the guts to confront the counter revolutionary forces head on. The ANC provincial elective conference, which will be held at Durban’s Olive Convention Center from Friday to Sunday, will see party members electing new leaders who will take up key positions in the ANC’s provincial top five leadership structure and the provincial executive committee (PEC). ALSO READ | ANC’s KZN PEC meets ahead of elective conference Senior ANC members expected to contest the party’s chairperson position include Zikalala who is the incumbent, Finance MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube, Community Safety MEC Peggy Nkonyeni, KZN Legislature chair of chairs Siboniso Duma, businessperson Sandile Zungu as well as KZN provincial government former director-general Nhlanhla Ngidi. While Zuma’s influence in the ANC at the national level has been diminishing in recent years, he remains a powerful force in KZN. In April, the Zuma supporters in the ANC’s eThekwini region used their political muscle to propel former eThekwini Municipality mayor, Zandile Gumede, a staunch Zuma supporter, to the ANC regional chairperson position. During the build-up to the provincial conference, there has been speculation that Zuma and his supporters are planning to throw their weight behind Zungu. However, Shezi on Wednesday said Zuma supports all the candidates vying for the ANC provincial chairperson position. I think the confusion emanates from the fact that President Zuma has an open-door policy — his belief in ubuntu [humanity] doesn’t allow him to say no if a person requests to meet him. Given his wisdom and his deep understanding of the ANC, it’s natural that those wanting to contest leadership positions within the ANC will seek his advice. So, when people see him meeting a candidate, they wrongly assume that he has endorsed that candidate. With more than 70% of the ANC KZN branches having successfully held their branch general meetings (BGMs) to nominate their preferred candidates, ANC provincial spokesperson, Nhlakanipho Ntombela said preparations for the provincial conference have been incident free.  “The convening of the conference is a culmination of a smooth and robust process in [which] hundreds of branch general meetings (BGMs) held their nomination processes.”