There is still no clear indication of what was behind the weekend shootings that targeted tavern patrons in Pietermaritzburg and Johannesburg. Four people died after two gunmen opened fire at patrons at the Samukelisiwe Tavern in Sweetwaters, Pietermaritzburg, on Saturday, while 17 people died on the same day after being shot by unknown people targeting taverns in Johannesburg. While the Institute for Security Studies (ISS) senior researcher Johan Burger said it is premature to categorise the shootings as terrorist acts, he conceded that the attacks are “unusual”.  They [attacks on taverns] are very different from the ordinary shootings which South Africans are accustomed to. The attacks appear to be well planned. While Police Minister Bheki Cele said police are yet to establish the motive for the attacks, a senior crime intelligence officer told The Witness that the attacks cannot be viewed in isolation. One thing which is clear is that the attacks were planned at a central point. The fact that nothing was stolen in the three shootings suggests that the motive is to create a climate of fear in the country. Like Cele, President Cyril Ramaphosa, who described the attacks as the work of “violent criminals”, avoided speculating on the motives of the attackers. The EFF, which has accused the ANC-led government of failure to prioritise the issue of crime in the country, said of the attacks that there is “no justification or rationale for killing innocent people, no matter what ends such an attack sought to achieve”. “The culprits in this heinous crime must therefore be understood as terrorists who have effected a massacre in Soweto,” the EFF said in a statement. The Pietermaritzburg shooting was preceded by incidents involving gunmen who pounced on taverns and other businesses to rob customers of cellphones, cash and other valuables. Cele said police have gathered evidence which could lead to the arrest of the gunmen.  Once we arrest them, they will be able to tell us why they decided to commit these evil acts. They will also tell us who they are working with. The shootings come as the country is still reeling from the deaths of 21 teenagers who died under mysterious circumstances at the Enyobeni Tavern in the Eastern Cape. Meanwhile, the Qatar government after consultations with its South African counterpart on Monday afternoon retracted its earlier statement which implied that the weekend tavern shootings were acts of terrorism