FNB has revealed that consumer spending on audio and video streaming services has increased by roughly 70% from the period before Covid-19 up to end of June 2022. FNB said some of these streaming services include Apple iTunes, Spotify, Google Music, Deezer, Amazon Prime, ShowMax, Netflix and YouTube. Raj Makanjee, CEO of FNB retail, said their retail customers spend up to R190 million per month on audio and video streaming subscriptions. The flexibility of these platforms allows families to customise their own experience and playlists, with the convenience of consuming content whenever they want. “The use of content-on-demand platforms is likely to continue as more providers introduce services to give consumers more choice,” said Makanjee. As part of FNB’s efforts to help customers better manage their money, Makanjee said they’re offering them several ways to manage their streaming subscriptions. He said this includes enabling them to load subscriptions on their FNB Virtual Card with rewards of up to 40% back in eBucks on Netflix and Spotify.  In the past year, Makanjee said FNB customers earned over R16 million back in eBucks on these services. Ashley Saffy, business development head, FNB card, said the overall Virtual Card spend on streaming and subscription services has also grown approximately 600% year-on-year. “With the creation of Virtual Cards being free on our platform, we see more customers creating separate Virtual Cards dedicated to streaming subscriptions, and this makes it easy for them to track and manage their spend. Our Virtual Cards are also preferred for eCommerce, other subscription payments and QR payments via Scan to Pay on the FNB App,” she said. Since the launch in 2021, Saffy said over three million FNB Virtual Cards have been activated. “We have fully embraced the reality that customers want the liberty to choose and customise the content that they and their families consume across various streaming services. While our tools and services have empowered customers with the power of choice, we are equally delighted with the rate at which our customers continue to embrace our digital solutions, complementing their lifestyles,” said Saffy.