In South Africa, malaria is endemic in the Lowveld of Mpumalanga and in Limpopo (including Kruger National Park and other private game lodges in those areas). In KwaZulu-Natal it is endemic along the Maputaland coast.  The intermediate risk areas are Kosi Bay, Sodwana Bay, Mkuze Game reserve and St Lucia Lake. In North West and Northern Cape along the Molopo and Orange rivers malaria is only occasionally locally transmitted, and there is usually no need for preventive medication. Talk to your doctor if you experience a high fever while living in or after travelling to a high-risk malaria region.  The parasites that cause malaria can lie dormant in your body for up to a year. If you have severe symptoms, seek emergency medical attention.  Residents of a malaria region may be exposed to the disease so frequently that they acquire a partial immunity, which can lessen the severity of malaria symptoms. However, this partial immunity can disappear if you move to a country where you’re no longer frequently exposed to the parasite.  Some varieties which typically cause milder forms can persist for years and cause relapses.  ALSO SEE: WARNING | Don’t confuse malaria with Covid-19 – NICD Malaria is caused by a parasite transmitted most commonly by mosquito bites. Malaria produces recurrent attacks of chills and fever. Malaria kills an estimated 660 000 people each year. While the disease is uncommon in temperate climates, malaria is still prevalent in tropical and subtropical countries. World health officials are trying to reduce the incidence of malaria by distributing bed nets in those countries to help protect people as they sleep. Scientists around the world are still working to develop a vaccine. If you are travelling to locations where malaria is common, it is advisable that you take preventive medicine before, during and after your trip. Many malaria parasites are now immune to the most common drugs.  Malaria signs and symptoms typically begin within a few weeks after being bitten. Other modes of transmission:  People can also catch malaria from exposures to infected blood, including some of the following scenarios:  ALSO SEE: Tshwane measles outbreak officially now over, says NICD The biggest risk factor for developing malaria is to live in or to visit tropical areas where the disease is common. Many different subtypes of malaria parasites exist. The variety that causes the most lethal complications is most commonly found in African countries south of the Sahara Desert, The Asian subcontinent, Solomon Islands-Papua New Guinea and Haiti.  People at increased risk of serious disease include:  Malaria can be fatal, particularly the variety that is common in tropical parts of Africa. The Centres for Disease Control and Prevention estimate that 90% of all malaria deaths occur in Africa, most commonly in children under the age of five.  In most cases, malaria deaths are related to one or more serious complications, including:  Some blood tests can take several days to complete, while others can produce results in less than 15 minutes. Blood tests can show the presence of the parasite and help tailor treatment by determining:  Treating malaria  The types of drugs and the length of treatment will vary, depending on which type of malaria parasite you have, the severity of your symptoms, your age and whether or not you are pregnant.  If you are going to be travelling to a location where malaria is common, talk to your doctor a few months ahead of time about drugs you can take, before, during and after your trip. In general, the drugs taken to prevent malaria are the same drugs used to treat the disease. Your doctor needs to know where you will be travelling so that he or she can prescribe the drug that will work best on the type of malaria parasite most commonly found in that region. There is still no vaccine yet. Scientists around the world are trying to develop a safe and effective vaccine for malaria. As of yet, however, there is still no malaria vaccine approved for human use.  Reduce your exposure: