The escalating crime in Pietermaritzburg, especially in the CBD, has been attributed to last July’s unrest which resulted in greater poverty and unemployment.  This is the view shared by the security companies that have been working hard to curb the escalating number of crimes in the area, with business crime being the major contributor. Shaheen Suleiman, the owner of Magma Security and Investigations, said the unrest has harmed everyone, leaving many people unemployed and in deep poverty.  Suleiman said due to poverty, people now have to find alternative ways to survive, with stealing being one of them. You get the guys who are coming in and are desperate to feed their families and that is what is causing all of this crimes in the city. The unrest has had a ripple effect from the top right to the bottom. The crime is just escalating because of poverty as people are robbing businesses and homes to feed their loved ones Suleiman said there is currently a huge crisis of stock theft on the South Coast where they, as a private security company, have been called in to assist in curbing the problem.  He said people are stealing and slaughtering cattle to sell the meat at a very low price as poverty has created a ready market.  Theft, robberies, housebreaking, stock theft and other crimes are escalating mainly because of poverty and unemployment, said Suleiman. He said that since the unrest, crime, not just in Pietermaritzburg but the whole province, has escalated dramatically.  “People used to steal just so they could live a luxurious life and to have money to spend. But now, people are stealing to survive and that is bad. But that doesn’t mean that people must go and steal. “The government and the community need to get their act together and make sure that the law is uplheld.  Crime, especially in the Pietermaritzburg CBD, has gone through the roof. You can also see it daily with all these armed robberies,” he said. ALSO READ | July unrest report lays bare failure of intelligence structures to prevent rioting and looting He said to curb the escalating crime, the justice system needs to toughen up and ensure that they impose heavy sentences on those convicted, to set an example to others.  Suleiman said police need to establish more task teams and they must be on the ground, working with private security companies and communities. Walungisa Protection Service (WPS) owner Imraan Osman shared the same sentiment and said criminals have also become more organised.  Osman said there have also been a lot of household crimes such as trespassing, burglaries and thefts, which show that people are so desperate that they turn to crime.  He said in suburbs and townships, criminals jump walls to steal whatever they can find and sell it at a low price to buy food. “There are serious issues of crime, especially in the CBD where businesses are being targeted. The thing is, people are starving and now they are subjected to all these types of crimes which are bad.  “It’s bad as people are being robbed, even on the road, with students being targeted the most,” said Osman..