As much as former Mkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) spokesperson Carl Niehaus’ support for former president Jacob Zuma has endeared him to Zuma’s supporters, it has won him a throng of haters. “Can you please get a life. You are such a sore loser. Please, do us a favour and just go to bed. We sick and tired of your moaning and whinging.” These are just a few of the vitriolic attacks which Niehaus gets on social media each time he posts something in defence of Zuma. However, not everyone believes that Niehaus is only concerned with political expediency. One of those who believes that Niehaus is just exercising his right to freedom of expression is none other than 27-year-old Noluthando Mdluli — a Johannesburg model and entrepreneur. “He is a kind man who loves people and his country,” she says. Mdluli, who met Niehaus (62) at a Johannesburg mall two years ago, believes in Niehaus to the extent that she had no qualms about having him as her partner. “The moment we met, he just blew me away with his caring, kind and friendly persona.It’s unfortunate that those who dislike him are doing so out of ignorance. If they get to know him, I can assure you, they will immediately view him in a different light.” Mdluli, who runs an online clothing shop, was working as a sales assistant at a shop in the Rosebank Mall when she met Niehaus. “Initially, I was hesitant to date him given that he is white. I grew up in Soweto and had never dated a white person before. However, as I got to know him, I realised that he was not only kind and loving; he was also a true South African who did not identify himself in terms of race,” she says. Mdluli, whose son was three when she met Niehaus, said she was initially concerned that Niehaus would not embrace her child. “I thought he was just interested in me because I’m a model. However, I was surprised at the manner in which he embraced my son. “He told me that my child was now his too. He said we are now family. After our first meeting in 2020, our love just grew in leaps and bounds,” she says. While Mdluli says Niehaus’s political life is completely separate from their family life, she however concedes that there have been times when the two intermingled. ALSO READ | ‘Plain abuse of power,’ says Niehaus after court dismisses charge for violating Covid-19 regulations “Like when he was arrested when visiting Zuma at the Estcourt Prison in KZN, it was a traumatic moment for all of us. I was concerned that he would go to jail. There were also moments when he would show signs of depression, and that had an impact on our relationship as we now had to spend time worrying about the case. “Also, when he got arrested, we had plans to go on a vacation, something that would have strengthened our bond. But instead, we ended up on endless trips to Estcourt where he was attending his court case.” Two weeks ago, the Zondo Commission released its report painting Zuma as an enabler of the state capture and corruption which happened during his tenure as president. When asked whether she is concerned about Niehaus, who is a staunch Zuma supporter, continuing to defend the former president, Mdluli had an impassioned response. “It’s his life, he has his own political views. Why should I impose my own political view on him? I have my views and he respects them. Why should I be so cruel to the point of trying to censor him? “Does Julius Malema or Ramaphosa seek the approval of their partners before making public statements?” she asks. Last week, the Estcourt Magistrate’s Court dismissed the Covid-19 violation charges against Niehaus. “The court ruling is a big relief for us. We can now carry with our daily lives,” Mdluli said.