Kaizer Chiefs reserves’ young sensational talent Mfundo Vilakazi continued his brilliant form in his first season with the young Amakhosi in the DStv Diski Challenge (DDC) by scoring an unbelievable free-kick against Sekhukhune United this past weekend. Vilakazi scored the second goal of the match after Aden McCarthy put Chiefs ahead in the first half, before Vilakazi added the second goal just before half-time, scoring from way out of the box to help the team to a 2-1 victory last weekend. What a great goal scored by Mfundo Vilakazi ⭐ keen to say how this boy develops & grows at Chiefs, he's still raw but the talent is there. Obrigado ✨ pic.twitter.com/acSxBCiHJp— SA Football 1st ???????? (@RSAFutbol) May 8, 2022 The victory gave the Amakhosi juniors assurance to finish the season inside the top-eight, with the team sitting in sixth spot with 45 points going into the final round of the Diski Challenge fixtures. Coach Vela Khumalo says the team’s aim is to end the campaign in the top half of the log and says despite being without the services of two key players Bontle Molefe and Mduduzi Shabalala, who are on trial overseas, they still managed to do well. READ ALSO: Ex-Chiefs, Chippa coach in no hurry to find next job “Our aim is to stay in the top 8 and not lose our position. The guys scored some brilliant goals and we are proud. We are the youngest team in the DDC when you look at our average age. We are an attack minded team that’s why we are the second highest scoring team when you look at the stats. There are no challenges offensively and we are an entertaining team when you watch our games – we just need to work on our defence and ensure we stick to our playing philosophy,” Khumalo was quoted on the club’s website. “We have changed the team quite a bit, but not our approach. Another thing is that we lost two players who went for trials overseas in the last number of weeks (referring to Bontle Molefe and Mduduzi Shabalala), but we continued to do well. We were also able to add three players to the senior team.” The Glamour Boys juniors will now host Baroka FC at FNB Stadium on Saturday.