Batters in the IPL have bravely gone where none have gone before in hitting more than one-thousand sixes in the current season, and Proteas captain Temba Bavuma is hoping his batters can play with similar freedom when South Africa play a T20 series in India next month. The one-thousand sixes barrier was broken for the first time in the IPL in the final league stage match of 2022 on May 22 – the previous most maximums in a season being the 872 scored in 2018. “I’ve really enjoyed being off from cricket for the last four weeks, so I have not watched all the IPL, but the one thing I have seen is that there have been a lot more sixes hit – more than a thousand,” Bavuma said at a launch in Tembisa on Wednesday. “As a bowler, you’re probably scared to see that, but you’re smiling as a batsman. It means our bowlers will need to be a lot smarter, but for the batsmen, the pitches are good. “Our batsmen can really go out and express themselves. Our game doesn’t need to change too much, but to have power-hitters like David Miller and Tristan Stubbs teaming up together in the middle would be incredible. “They could be a potent partnership. David smashed the lights out on Tuesday to get Gujarat Titans in the final, Quinton de Kock bashed it around the other night and Kagiso Rabada has been brilliant as well,” Bavuma said. ALSO READ: Stubbs’ inclusion in T20 squad means Proteas could field explosive middle order While Stubbs will be fighting with the likes of Heinrich Klaasen and Reeza Hendricks for the one batting spot that could be open, Bavuma is backing the 21-year-old to make his mark on his first call-up to the Proteas squad. “It’s nice to see young new faces in the team and we’ve been on the receiving end of Tristan’s batting a number of times at the Lions. We’ll try to make the environment as comfortable as we can for him. “He’s a young guy so he also has the opportunity to learn a lot from the older guys in the team. He’ll have guys around him to make his transition to international cricket as smooth as possible. “Hopefully he can soak it all in because international cricket is different to the IPL or domestic T20. Hopefully he can really take his career forward. “We have a couple of guys in really good form from the IPL, but we expect it to be a tough series. India are always very competitive and we’ve seen some of their guys have a very good IPL as well,” Bavuma said.