Television personality and former radio presenter Bonang Matheba is still in an ongoing legal fight with her former management company, and the outcome of the battle seems to be in her favour.  The business feud began late last year when the television presenter took to Twitter to share some shocking revelations about her former management firm, Celebrity Services Africa (CSA). Bonang told her fans and followers that she had terminated her contract with the firm, and that she has instructed her attorneys to institute criminal proceedings against them. At the time the management company said Bonang is “currently in breach of multiple contracts with various clients as she has been derelict to these brands and indeed her own for the past six months.” ALSO READ: Bonang Matheba in heated twar with Nathi Mthethwa over R22m flag The former radio presenter took to Twitter on Thursday evening to rant about CSA as well as the owner of  the management firm without giving much information or any updates on their ongoing legal battle. Matheba started off by telling her fans and followers that she cannot wait to disclose information about Davin Phillips and everything he put her through. Can’t wait to tell you guys about this monster ——> @DavinPhillips.— Bonang Matheba ???? (@Bonang) May 19, 2022 She then went on to express how Phillips has put her and her family through hell in the past two years, and that she will no longer be dealing with him in private, but will be publicly exposing the treatment she has been getting from him and his company.  One thing I WILL do, is stand up for myself!!! PUBLICLY!! I’ve had ENOUGH!! You’ve put me and my family through HELL the last 2 years!! And clearly being decent behind closed doors, isn’t the language you understand ANYMORE!!! I’m going to FIGHT!! Watch me!! @DavinPhillips— Bonang Matheba ???? (@Bonang) May 19, 2022 Queen B then made allegations through her posts that Phillips had been trying to steal her alcoholic beverage company, House of BNG, from her, and that she is not the first person to receive this kind of unfair treatment as there are many other black creatives who he has stolen from in the past.  ….15 years of my HARD work! You think you can swoop in and STEAL from me?!! It will be a cold day in HELL my diye!! @DavinPhillips ❤️— Bonang Matheba ???? (@Bonang) May 19, 2022 …you steal from black creatives!! I’m not the 1st one!! A quick Google search is all one needs…It ends TODAY!! @DavinPhillips ????❤️ *let the music play*— Bonang Matheba ???? (@Bonang) May 19, 2022 Celebrity Services Africa sent a statement to The Citizen on Friday in response to Bonang’s allegations and tweets posted on Thursday evening.  In the statement, the management company made it clear that the television personality got into partnership with CSA in 2017, and her alcoholic beverage venture, House of BNG was a lunched in 2019. “These rants and raves by Ms Matheba are very unfortunate and tarnish her own dignity and reputation. They are also another attempt by Ms Matheba to distort and manipulate facts. To be clear, Ms Matheba joined CSA in 2017 and the House of BNG was launched in 2019,” read the statement. CSA then alleged that Matheba has been the only party to benefit from their partnership as she has made millions of Rands from her alcoholic beverage, while CSA is still at a loss and in the red after investing millions into her business venture. “Not only has CSA invested in this venture but we have been significantly instrumental in developing and creating the brand, from the actual naming convention to the route to market, packaging, innovation (MCC, Prestige and coming up with the concept of BNG Nectar – the sparkling wine in a can), the distribution strategy (in which we secured listings in key retailers), creation of the brand CI and the securing of all event partnerships,” the statement read.