According to the South African Weather Service (SAWS) the country’s provinces should expect fine and cool weather on Thursday.  The multi-model rainfall forecast indicates below-normal rainfall for most parts of the countryexcept for the central and eastern coastal areas in early winter  and the eastern coastalareas during mid-and late-winter, according to the weather service’s seasonal climate watch for the period between May and September.  “Both maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to be above-normal for most of the country, except for parts of the Northern Cape and Eastern Cape where below-normal temperatures are expected.” Gauteng: Fine and cool. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme. Mpumalanga: Morning fog patches along the escarpment, otherwise fine and cool, but warm in the Lowveld. Limpopo: Fine and warm. North West: Fine and cool to warm. Free State: Fine and cool. Northern Cape: Cloudy in the morning with fog patches along the coast, otherwise fine and cool. The wind along the coast will be Light and variable becoming moderate in the evening. Western Cape: Cloudy to partly cloudy in the west with morning fog along the west-coast and the central interior, otherwise fine and cold to cool. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate westerly to north-westerly. The expected UVB sunburn index: Low. Western half of the Eastern Cape: Fine and cool weather. The wind along the coast will be Light and variable,becoming light south westerly in the afternoon. Eastern half of the Eastern Cape: Fine and cool weather. The wind along the coast will be Light to moderate north easterly, becoming moderate south westerly in the evening. KwaZulu-Natal: Morning fog over the interior, otherwise partly cloudy and cool, but warm in places in the east. It will become fine in the afternoon. The wind along the coast will be Gentle westerly to north-westerly in the morning, otherwise moderate north-easterly, becoming fresh south of Durban in the afternoon. The expected UVB sunburn index: High.