Media personality Minnie Dlamini’s personal life has been a hot topic on social media this week, with numerous allegations being discussed on the streets of Twitter and reports from other publications.  Earlier this week, it was reported that her soon-to-be ex-husband Quinton Jones had cut ties as a partner from their production company.   According to the Sunday World, Jones took the decision to resign from Beautiful Day Production shortly after the couple’s separation.  The source added that Jones owned about 25% of the company while Minnie owned the rest of the shares.   The source further alleged that Jones instructed his lawyers to file divorce papers, explaining he had lost love for her and that he would leave their Midrand house to her.  This was followed by more bombshell allegations from gossip blogger Musa Khawula who alleged the reason for Minnie and Quntion’s separation was infidelity.  Khawula has become synonymous with making outlandish and bombshell assertions about celebrities, who have hit back against his tweets.  He alleged Minnie had been “cold” to Quinton after the tragic passing of her brother and then cheated on him shortly after.  Khawula further claimed Minnie was seeing a high profile businessman while she was married. These claims saw the Homeground presenter trending on social media this week, including on Google trends.  The Citizen reached out to Minnie’s representative repeatedly, however, they declined to comment on the cheating allegations, saying ‘they are not working on it right now.  At the time of her divorce announcement, Dlamini said after months of separation and consultations with their family and a counsellor, they have taken the decision to file for divorce officially. ALSO READ: Minnie Dlamini’s jaw-dropping post-divorce body sets internet on fire “Despite our better efforts to absorb the changes in motion, the emotional burden and the post-traumatic distress of our loss outweighed our will,” Minnie said in the statement. She added that they will remain friends, business partners and loving parents to their beautiful son and asked for their privacy to be respected during this difficult time.