The prostate is a nut-sized gland located between the bladder and the penis. The urethra is a tube that runs through the centre of the prostate, from the bladder to the penis, letting urine flow out of the body. The role of the prostate is to secrete fluid that protects sperm. During ejaculation, the prostate squeezes this fluid into the urethra, and it’s expelled as semen. A man’s prostate gland usually starts to enlarge after he reaches 40 years old. For most men, the nightly bathroom runs may be the first sign of an enlarged prostate.  Other symptoms may include trouble starting a stream of urine, leaking, or dribbling. In men, urine flows from the bladder through the urethra. Enlargement of the prostate blocks the flow of urine through the urethra. The prostate cells gradually multiply, creating an enlargement that puts pressure on the urethra through which urine and semen exit the body. ALSO READ:  These countries offer paid menstrual leave As the urethra narrows, the bladder has to contract more forcefully to push urine through the body. Over time, the bladder muscle may gradually become stronger, thicker, and overly sensitive; it begins to contract even when it contains small amounts of urine, causing a need to urinate frequently.  Other conditions which can lead to symptoms similar to those caused by enlarged prostate include: Risk factors for prostate gland enlargement include  Benign prostate hyperplasia is often a diagnosis of exclusion after we make sure nothing more serious is going on. The symptoms commonly are:  Also when the bladder does not empty completely, you are at risk of developing urinary tract infections. Other problems can also develop over time, including bladder stones, blood in the urine, incontinence, and acute urinary retention (an inability to urinate).  A physical exam is required to see if other medical problems may be causing your symptoms. The doctor will conduct a digital rectal exam for the prostate gland. He or she can feel the prostate by inserting a gloved, lubricated finger into the rectum. This procedure allows your doctor to estimate the size and condition of the prostate. Most importantly, it allows the doctor to feel for lumps or hard areas that could indicate the presence of prostate cancer.  Your doctor may check your urine (urinalysis) for blood or signs of infection. Your blood may be tested for kidney problems or sent for a prostate-specific antigen level, which is a screening test for prostate cancer. Some men are referred to a specialist (urologist) for further tests. Before you are treated for benign prostate enlargement, it is important to rule out other possible causes of an enlarged prostate, such as cancer. ‘ Immediate treatment may not be necessary if symptoms are mild. A watchful waiting approach may be initiated because for many men symptoms can lessen without treatment. On the other hand, medications should be started early for moderate symptoms.  Also, if symptoms are severe, your doctor may recommend surgery. You will also need to visit your doctor once or twice a year to be sure that you are not developing any complications from prostate enlargement. Should your symptoms become more severe, both medical and surgical treatments are available.  Some precautions can help to avoid worsening symptoms of prostate enlargement and complications. Do not delay urination once you experience an urge. Urinate empty bladder completely. There is no known way to prevent prostate enlargement. It is a common part of ageing. Other things you may do include: