When Bulls director of rugby Jake White returns to his Loftus Versfeld office on Monday morning, it will be with a sense of delight over how his team got the job done in Swansea and great excitement for the future of what is still a largely young team. The Bulls beat Ospreys 38-31 at the weekend – a bonus point win that was more convincing than the scoreline suggested and which ensured a home United Rugby Championship quarterfinal against the Sharks in the first week of June. “We played really, really well at times and we could have won 45-24 if the ball had gone to hand when Juan Mostert threw a pass that was intercepted and Ospreys scored,” White said after the Bulls overtook the Sharks in the standings to finish fourth in the pool stages. “It was a comprehensive win and I was happy with everybody. I thought we played really well tonight – the shape of our attack, the speed of our game and the quick ball from the rucks, our understanding of space and where to go. “At times we made it look so simple against a really good team that was vying to be the top Welsh side. We did that by creating space, carrying through the middle and using tip-passes. “To be able to do that under pressure makes it even more gratifying. I’m really looking forward to how good this team is going to be.” ALSO READ: Stormers lead the pack as SA teams sparkle in URC While outside centre Cornal Hendricks ran Ospreys off the park in the second half with a hat-trick of tries, there were heroes all over the field for the Bulls. “Cornal was outstanding and I was very happy he got Man of the Match, but Canan Moodie showed why we put young guys in these positions. He knocked on in his own 22 and Ospreys scored, but then he set up his try and one for Cornal,” White said. “Ten seconds before Mostert threw the intercept pass, he made a try-saving tackle. Ruan Nortje was very good. If he keeps playing like that, it’s going to be difficult to leave him out of the Springbok squad. “I wouldn’t have been surprised if Gerhard Steenekamp had got Man of the Match – at times he was outstanding as well – and a guy like Johan Grobbelaar does so much for us. “I’m just really happy to see how we have grown as a team and that the guys now get a chance to play at home, having shown we can win away if we play well enough.”