Skywatchers in parts of southern South America, Antarctica, and the Pacific and Southern Oceans had prime seats to view the partial solar eclipse on Saturday, which coincided with a Black Moon. April’s eclipse was visible to those observing from Chile, Argentina, most of Uruguay, western Paraguay, southwestern Bolivia, southeastern Peru, and a small area of southwestern Brazil. Unfortunately for sky gazers in South Africa, the next partial eclipse won’t be seen until 17 February 2026. And we’ll have to wait even longer for the next total solar eclipse – 25 November 2030. When the Moon moves between the Sun and Earth, it casts a shadow and blocks the sunlight (either fully or partially) from reaching this globe we call home.  During a partial eclipse, the Moon and Sun are not perfectly aligned, so the Moon does not completely cover the Sun.  Viewers will observe the Sun as a crescent shape.  Partial Solar Eclipse in April ????????This eclipse will be visible in Chile, Argentina, most of Uruguay, western Paraguay, southwestern Bolivia, southeastern Peru, and a small area of southwestern Brazil. View it just before and during sunset on April 30. ???? pic.twitter.com/XwvXGwHF2e— Star Walk (@StarWalk) April 26, 2022 A ‘Black Moon’ is rare; no astronomical sightings were reported by 2021. While ‘black moon’ is not an official astronomical term, the phrase refers to one of two things:  Sounds confusing, we know, but ‘new moon’ should not be confused with ‘full moon’.  A new moon occurs when the Sun and Moon are aligned, with the Sun and Earth on opposite sides of the Moon. Because we can’t see a new moon, it’s also called the Invisible Phase. Signs & wonder. The second new moon of April, dubbed a 'black moon', is set to occur on Saturday, April 30, at 21:28 BST (16:28 EDT). It will coincide with a partial solar eclipse viewable in the southern hemisphere pic.twitter.com/cfHHkpNxkt— GAB: @HoneeDesigner (@HoneeDesigner) April 30, 2022 Generally, a calendar month will have only one full moon – the phase of the moon we can see in all its glory.  If, however, a month has two full moons, the second is called a Blue Moon. So, think of it as the opposite of a Black Moon.  Black Moons occur approximately once every 29 months NOW WATCH: Last solar eclipse of 2022 This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Via Space.com