SOCCER 10 POOL OF THE DAYSaturday 14 May S10 V1 Cape Town City, Royal AM and Kaizer Chiefs all still have hopes of finishing runners-up to Mamelodi Sundowns in the DStv Premiership and need to win their respective games this afternoon. More details at www.soccer6.co.za. M1 Baroka FC vs SuperSport United: Baroka sit bottom of the table but can still avoid automatic relegation. SuperSport’s last three games have all ended in draws.M2 Cape Town City vs AmaZulu: AmaZulu scored a 5-1 win when they last visited City just over a year ago but this time take on a team in second place and on a 12-match unbeaten run.M3 Empoli vs Salernitana: Empoli have won one of their past 20 matches. Salernitana, who are still battling relegation, last won at Empoli in 1999.M4 Lamontville Golden Arrows vs Royal AM: Arrows are chasing a top eight finish but won only one of their last six matches. Royal AM have not won any of their last four encounters.M5 Mamelodi Sundowns vs Stellenbosch FC: Sundowns look to finish unbeaten at home this season. Stellenbosch have lost on all four past visits to Sundowns.M6 Sekhukhune United vs Kaizer Chiefs: Sekhukhune must win their last two games of the league season to stand any chance of a top eight finish. Chiefs beat Sekhukhune 2-0 in their only previous meetings, which was just before Christmas.M7 Swallows FC vs Chippa United: The Birds are in second last place in the standings with Chippa just four points above them. Swallows have one win from their last eight games while Chippa have one in seven.M8 TS Galaxy vs Marumo Gallants: Galaxy were the only one of the bottom five clubs who did not pick up a point last weekend, losing at Cape Town City. Gallants have not won any of their last seven league outings.M9 Chelsea vs Liverpool: Liverpool edged Chelsea on post-match penalties in this season’s League Cup final, now they return to Wembley to decide the FA Cup.M10 Hellas Verona vs Torino: Five of the past seven clashes between these clubs have ended in draws but Torino won 1-0 at home the last time they met in December. Suggested permutation: R64.00 1,2 x 1 x 2,3 x 2,3 x 1 x 3 x 1,2 x 1,2 x 1 x 1