The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) has asked Parliament’s Portfolio Committee on Justice and Correctional Services for R750 million to prosecute perpetrators identified in the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. The NPA’s Investigating Directorate (ID) has already declared 82 investigations and enrolled 20 cases, implicating 65 people from Chief Justice Raymond Zondo’s Report, the final instalment of which is expected to drop on 15 June.  The state’s prosecuting body said it also needs another R1 billion per annum to respond to the rising levels of crime. “The committee noted the NPA’s need for additional funding to respond to the Zondo Commission reports as well as its longer-term structural-needs funding to strengthen its capacity to respond to rising levels of crime,” said Committee Chairperson Bulelani Magwanishe. The additional funding will be used to appoint additional capacity, modernise the NPA, and improve capacity in the Investigating Directorate (ID), the National Prosecutions Service (including specialised units) and the Office for Witness Protection, as well as various goods and services, machinery and other equipment. Officials from the NPA and the State Capture Commission are working together to ensure a seamless transition of the commission’s work into criminal cases, asset forfeiture recoveries, or other sanctions that the courts will deem fit. “Ending impunity for high-level corruption and state capture cases is a priority for the country,” said the NPA in a statement. The NPA’s announcement comes on the back of concerns and criticism that the State Capture Commission, which came with a hefty price tag north of R1 billion, would be just another fruitless expenditure where officials are only named and shamed. The ID has prioritised nine corruption matters for enrolment within the next six months. The NPA said it would find innovative ways to leverage private sector support while closely protecting its independence and compliance with the relevant regulation. NOW READ: NPA’s Investigating Directorate registers 20 state capture-related prosecutions