Two suspects linked to the New Monwabisi Park mass shooting in Khayelitsha are expected to appear in court on Wednesday. The duo was nabbed in two different locations in Western Cape and Eastern Cape on Tuesday. This brings the number of suspects arrested in relation to the case to three. The accused, aged 25 and 28, face five counts of murder over the mass shooting in Khayelitsha on 14 March that claimed the lives of five people.  The 25-year-old suspect was arrested in Cala, Eastern Cape by a police team consisting of detectives, intelligence officials and Eastern Cape police. According to police spokesperson Brigadier Novela Potelwa, the 28-year-old second suspect gave them the run-around and he was arrested in Khayelitsha. An unlicensed firearm believed to be the murder weapon was found in his possession. An additional charge will be added to his charges for possession of an illegal firearm, Potelwa said in a statement. “The two arrests bring the number of suspects arrested for the Endlovini multiple murders to three,” she said. The third suspect, identified as Madoda Zwayi, 34, was apprehended on 11 April during a tracing operation. ALSO READ: New Somerset Hospital shooting: Officer dies, pushing death toll to three At the same time, a 39-year-old man was arrested for the murder of two patients at Somerset Hospital in Cape Town. The incident took place on 7 May when the suspect grabbed a police officer’s gun and fired several shots. A 32-year-old police officer also got injured during the hospital shooting. The officer underwent emergency surgery and succumbed to injuries related to his gunshot wound on 8 May. The accused, Jean-Paul Carl Malgas, appeared at court in legs shackles and handcuffs on charges of three counts of murder, illegal possession of a firearm, ammunition, and robbery. His next court appearance will be on 30 June, for further investigations. Meanwhile, in an unrelated incident, six people were killed in another mass shooting in Khayelitsha on 8 May. The sixth victim died at a medical facility, while the other five victims were found dead at the scene. ALSO READ: Black woman ‘mistaken’ for hippo, shot in Limpopo