The entry-level segment of the South African car market remains one of the most popular and also offers the widest variety when it comes to budget vehicles.  This makes the decision about which car suits your budget and needs even trickier as buyers are literally spoilt for choice. Motus pride themselves on offering quality vehicles for those on a tight budget and these are the top three vehicles available for under R175,000. Here are three best budget vehicle buys to consider, from motus.cars, supported by Motus Toyota (previously Imperial Toyota): Price estimate: R162,900 The Renault Sandero offers excellent value for money and a roomy cabin.  Smaller and more of a hatchback than the Duster while being more versatile than the Clio it is the kind of car that can do it all. The 66kW engine offers commendable performance and creature comforts that include air conditioning, air bags and electric windows. TIP: 2020 models with 20,000km on the clock can be found for around R160,000 – shop here. Price estimate: R170,900 The Renault Kwid is a good choice for motorists looking for a vehicle that offers excellent fuel economy and a raised ride height, that allows it to tackle less than perfect roads when necessary. The Kwid is fitted with a 1.0-litre, three-cylinder engine that offers 50kW and 91Nm and is mated to either a five-speed manual or AMT gearbox.  Renault claim the Kwid will use as little as 5,3 litres per 100km. Standout features include:  TIP: Motus often have stock of very low mileage examples of the Kwid, which allows buyers to drive away in a car that is as good as new at a reduced price – shop here. Price estimate: R174,900 The Kia Picanto has a reputation for offering one of the most premium cabins in its class as well as the most comprehensive level of standard equipment, which includes a multimedia infotainment display and a multifunction steering wheel.  Creature comforts include airbags and air conditioning. The three-cylinder, 1.0-litre engine fitted to the Picanto Street boasts 49kW and 95Nm which Kia claim will use just 6,0 litres per 100km. Motus prides themselves in offering good quality pre-owned vehicles that adhere to strict criteria that guarantee the quality and allow motorists to shop with confidence. In order to ensure that the vehicles being offered for sale are in excellent condition, Motus subjects their vehicles to a thorough 110-point quality check.  In house technicians thoroughly inspect the vehicle to ensure that everything is as it should be. Browse our range of quality, Motus-certified new, used and demo vehicles for sale here. Visit motus.cars for more info, or join the conversation on Facebook, and YouTube.