The success of the alignment camps and the likelihood that there will not be any Covid bubbles to negotiate means Springbok coach Jacques Nienaber is in no rush to name his squad for the incoming series against Wales in July and will wait until the United Rugby Championship plays itself out. Nienaber, speaking at SA Rugby’s announcement of a three-year initiative with Betway called Next Phase, which will develop the women’s game through growing coaching capacity, said the squad had not even been chosen yet by the selectors, while Wales announced their touring group last week. READ MORE: Key players to miss Wales tour to South Africa “I’ll announce the squad only after the players have completed their commitments with their franchises. They don’t need to hear from the national coach now, just their franchise coaches. “We haven’t yet had our selection meeting, although there is a certain group that we are looking at. We know who we’re looking at, we’ve had alignment camps, but we’ll let the teams play their URC playoffs first. “The Welsh teams are already all out of the URC, so Wales can already be in camp, but it’s going to be more staggered for us, with players joining us as their teams fall out.” ALSO READ: Springboks to kick off training camp for Wales Tests on 6 June While only a handful of players from the UK tour last November will be nervous about a potential axe hanging over their heads, Nienaber said he was heartened by the performances of the South African teams in the United Rugby Championship. “I was encouraged by all four teams – all of them have played excellent rugby – and even the Lions did well with their comeback. They had a great winning streak here.” ALSO READ: Johan Goosen targets Bok return as he chases World Cup dream Nienaber, who helped out with the coaching of the Springbok women’s team in 2014/15, said Next Phase came from an epiphany that their approach was wrong back then. “Women’s rugby is on another development level and we probably made a mistake trying to foist a men’s programme on them back in 2014/15. The basics are not necessarily there with the girls because they start playing so late,” he said. “You need to build the basics and then put the next layer in, which is adding the creative plans.”