With three consecutive defeats since taking over on an interim basis, Kaizer Chiefs coach Arthur Zwane remains positive the team will get it right. He admits, however, that their chances of a second place finish have been heavily dented. ALSO READ: Amrouche throws his hat in the ring for Kaizer Chiefs job – againChiefs stuttered to their fourth loss in a row on Saturday when they were felled by Cape Town City at FNB Stadium in the replay of the DStv Premiership match which did not take place in December, after an outbreak of Covid-19 at the Chiefs Village.“It’s going to get better – I don’t lose hope. I’m not that worried, our chances of getting the second spot are now very slim. But it’s not over until the fat lady sings,” said Zwane after Saturday’s game.He said his job has been made difficult because when he tries to fix the defence, the midfield gives him problems and vice versa.“There’s so much going wrong. When you have a team that has so many challenges, you’re trying to fix this problem at the back and you have a problem in the midfield,” said Zwane. “And when you try to fix the problem in midfield, you have a problem up front. At the moment it’s not going our way and that is why we are playing in patches. There is no consistency.”Zwane said the lack of proper preparation time has also contributed to the side’s displays of late. Since taking over, Zwane has had little time to re-instil the Amakhosi way which he has said Chiefs need to return to.“Kaizer Chiefs have not had enough time to prepare the team well, that would help. We haven’t been training. We’ve been having one session, then it’s the game, one session, then game,” he added.  “And when you are trying to get the combinations right that doesn’t help at all. We keep making more silly mistakes, look at the first goal, the second goal. It’s more or less the same goal that Kaizer Chiefs conceded against Golden Arrows. It’s more or less the same goal that we conceded from a transition when we were on attack against Stellies. There’s a lot that we need to fix and it’s going to take time.” Chiefs return to action on Tuesday when they host Marumo Gallants at FNB Stadium and Zwane will hope for a better result with the supporters starting to doubt his capabilities.