South African musician and businessman Refiloe Phoolo, commonly known as Cassper Nyovest has reached many impressive milestones in his music career and as an influential public figure.  The Baby Girl hitmaker is not one to shy away from flashing his luxurious lifestyle which consists of designer clothes, accessories and shoes, expensive fast cars and a jaw-dropping luxurious mansion which the rapper frequently shows off on his social media pages. The mansion is situated on a large plot in the high end suburbs of Kyalami in Johannesburg, and although  the cost of the house has not been revealed, it is safe to say that the musician forked out a couple of millions to call it his own home.  The mansion is surrounded by a massive plush, and well-maintained garden which has a number of short and tall trees, as well as healthy trimmed hedges. In the backyard of the house, Cassper has placed a jungle gym and playset for his son, as well as an in-ground trampoline.  ALSO READ: Uncle Waffles, Cassper & Nasty C receive more praise from international rappers The mansion has a modern-day architectural look that is supported by square pillars. The house has been painted cream white and has dark roof tiles which complement the exterior colour of the house.  Phoolo, who often refers to himself as “Mufasa” has placed a number of sculpted lion statues around his home to mark his territory as the king of the jungle, in this case, the king of his own castle.  The home also has a stunning rectangle-shaped swimming pool which has a Versace logo design painted at the bottom and overlooks the businessman’s garden as well as some acres of tall trees and vacant land outside of his home.  There is a “chill” area not too far from the swimming pool which consists of a built in infinity outdoor sofa which Cassper has furnished with blue and yellow cushions.  Upon entrance into the luxurious mansion are two staircases on each side of the house which have been tiled with black glossy tiles, both leading up to the second story of the house. At the bottom of each staircase sits a wooden lion statue which resembles the lion statues Caspper has placed all around the mansion.  Rifeloe has not shared much of his home from the inside, but his fans and followers have gotten the chance to see his living room where he frequently plays FIFA with his friends. The living room consists of a black infinity sofa which faces the television and surrounds a square glass coffee table that sits on top of a multicoloured rug.