SOCCER POOL OF THE DAY Friday 20 May S10 V3 Orlando Pirates have a chance to become the first South African side since 2016 to win an African club competition when they meet Renaissance Berkane in tonight’s Caf Confederation Cup final in Nigeria. More details at www.soccer6.co.za. M1 Orlando Pirates vs Renaissance Berkane: Pirates are in a fourth African club competition final but won just one of their past three. Berkane wo the African Confederation Cup two years ago.M2 Cosenza vs Vicenza: Second leg of the Serie relegation playoff with Vicenza winning last week’s first leg 1-0.M3 Bohemians vs Sligo Rovers: Bohemians have already beaten Rovers 1-0 away in the Irish league this season, just over one month ago.M4 Cork City vs Wexford: Cork share the lead with Galway of the Irish second division. Wexford are 20 points behind them after just 14 matches played.M5 Derry City vs Dundalk: Three matches without a win has seen Derry surrender top place in the Irish league to champions Shamrock Rovers. Dundalk are third, seven points behind Derry.M6 Drogheda United vs Finn Harps: Drogheda United have lost four on the trot while Finn Harps have been beaten in four of their previous five games.M7 Inverness Caledonian Thistle vs St Johnstone: Inverness have come through two playoff ties and now take on St Johnstone for a place in next season’s Scottish Premiership. This is the first leg with the return on Monday.M8 St. Patrick Athletic vs Shelbourne: St Pats last home game was a 4-0 loss to Derry City. Shelbourne have climbed out of the bottom two in the Irish league after successive victories.M9 Treaty United vs Cobh Ramblers: Treaty United have not won in their past six fixtures while Ramblers conceded four goals in each of their last two matches.M10 UMF Afturelding vs UMF Selfoss: Afturelding lost at home last week and are yet to win in the new Iceland second division season. Selfoss are on a six match winning run. Suggested permutation: R8.00 3 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 2,3 x 1 x 1,2 x 1