Former Eskom CEO Matshela Koko responded to findings of the capture of power utility and the Guptas part in “stopping load shedding”. On Sunday morning, Koko aired his views on Twitter: “If the Guptas indeed captured and controlled [Eskom] as it is suggested by CJ Zondo then the country has a reason to thank them.” “After all, they stopped load-shedding, sustained planned maintenance, and they did not burn diesel to keep the lights on.” In a scathing indictment of Koko’s tenure at the power utility, Chief Justice Raymond Zondo found Koko was an integral part of the Gupta family’s capture of Eskom.  Zondo recommended the former CEOs Koko and Brian Molefe, former CFO Anoj Singh, and Jacob Zuma be criminally charged.  But, the damning report into the capture of Eskom is seemingly like water off a duck’s back for the former CEO, if his commentary on Twitter is anything to go by. Koko surmised that if a foreign family had hijacked the state, the National Prosecuting Authority would have acted by now. When asked by one user what should be done now, he responded. “Bring the Guptas back.” ALSO READ: Load shedding crisis as Eskom breakdowns hit new record His comments come a day after the Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse released a statement intended to put more pressure on the country’s prosecuting authority to institute criminal proceedings against politicians and businesspeople that have been identified in the State Capture reports. “The findings were made by the country’s Chief Justice Raymond Zondo; the NPA has no excuses to further delay prosecutions,” said Outa. Meanwhile, Zuma has been eerily quiet since the fourth instalment of the report – which dealt largely with Eskom’s capture – identified him as handing over the country to a corrupt family. The only communication since the release – a part from a cryptic tweet about ‘fruits from a poisoned tree’ –  has been wishing South Africans well over the long weekend. NOW READ: Outa to NPA: No more excuses, prosecute those implicated in State Capture