After first airing in October 2020, e.tv drama Durban Gen is already making its way off the air.  The channel confirmed its cancellation in a statement issued on Tuesday.  “e.tv can confirm that the hospital drama Durban Gen will be coming to an end in January 2023. The decision to decommission the daily drama is part of a business strategy which includes the ongoing review of the on-air life-cycle of all our shows,” said the channel which gave a similar reason for their decision to cancel long-running soapie, Rhythm City.  “e.tv continues to look forward to fulfilling its mandate of producing exceptional and relevant local content, and the production has successfully achieved its part of the obligation throughout the past 2 years,” added the channel.  For months on end, Durban Gen has been subject to criticism from viewers about the accuracy in most of the scenes which follow the lives of people in a number of medical professions.  Yah nd while at it. They must watch medical shows like bo Dokter Ali. Chicago meds. Learn a thing or two. Bcoz wow safa ubufebe nje ku Durban gen— tshegochaane (@tshegochaane1) May 6, 2022 Chicago Med, Good Doctor & Grey's Anatomy. Top notch quality medical shows— ???? (@UnkleBlu) May 7, 2022 Durban General (aka Durban Gen) was produced by Stained Glass TV, the same production company responsible for shows like The Wife, eHostela, Uzalo and Ifalakhe, to name a few.Most recently, The Wife went on a break ahead of its third season and reportedly did so to go back to the drawing board in an effort to improve the show after a barrage of complaints. The production house describes Durban Gen as a daily drama that plays out in the emergency ward of Durban’s biggest public hospital, and follows the trials and tribulations of the doctors and nurses that make up its staff. “Durban General is NOT a drama about a hospital. Durban General is a soap opera about doctors and nurses falling into and out of love with each other, having affairs under each other’s noses, backstabbing their best friends, and fighting for promotions and status in the workplace; all set against a backdrop of high stakes human drama, as doctors lose patients just as often as they save lives.”The show stars actors such as Meshack Mavuso, Zuluboy, Mtando Mncube and singer-turned-actress Nelisiwe Sibiya among others. I feel bad for the #DurbanGen actors coz most of them were quite decent and had grown since the show started, they just needed character building storylines. But all we got was nonsense affairs and little to no research! ???? https://t.co/bAs0prC4pu— MbalenhleDonda (@DondaMbalenhle) May 7, 2022 Not Durban Gen using Out Patient files for In Patients…Aibo ????????????— Nomaberry (@_Noma_S) May 9, 2022 I said this when Durban Gen started & I say it now. I expected it to have storylines about doctors and nurses struggling with patients coming in with Ebola after a trip to the DRC. Maybe treating a patient with yellow fever, malaria, rare diseases. Instead it was mjolo stories.— Siphumelele Zondi (@SZondi) May 10, 2022 This description did not save the show from the scrutiny of an audience that wanted a little medical accuracy from the show they were watching. The show debuted to much fanfare but it left fans in two minds about the show. The first two episodes set the scene for many a storyline, including that of the show’s first patients, a couple who find themselves struggling with a case of vaginismus.Some fans seemed to have found this storyline hilarious, while others were not too fond of certain elements in the show.