The Red Bull KTM MotoGP team boss believes the Austrian outfit is close to finding a solution to its problems after another below par weekend at the Spanish Grand Prix. Brad Binder and his team-mate Miguel Oliveira did fight their way through the field to finish in 10th and 12th respectively after starting from 15th and 17th place on the grid at Jerez respectively.  Both cited rear tyre vibrations due to a glitch during the race preventing them from fighting harder for more points.  Both finishing more than 20 seconds off Francesco Bagnaia’s winning race pace. See to the full Spanish Grand Prix results, click here. Red Bull KTM hopes to work on their rear tyre issues during testing at Jerez over the next few days before the next race at Le Mans on 15 May. “[From the back of the grid] it is possible to recover some position, but not enough to be where we want to be at the end of the race. We also have to investigate the rear tire vibration,” said Francesco Guidotti, Red Bull KTM team manager. “We had one top ten and we want more. We are not here for that. “I feel that we are not too far away.” The result saw Binder slip from seventh to eighth in the world championship. The South African is on 48 points, 51 behind leader Fabio Quartararo, with Oliveira five points further adrift in 10th place. ALSO READ: Tickets for Formula One event at Kyalami would probably cost more than R5k each- expert “I’m frustrated because we expected more but today wasn’t the day,” Binder said after Sunday’s race. “A really difficult weekend for all of us. This is a track I really love but we weren’t able to have the race we wanted. “I had a big vibration come from the rear wheel so I did my best to get as many points as possible but this problem made it hard to fight with the guys. It upset the bike on corner entry and made it hard to stop.” Brad’s younger brother Darryn Binder was in 17th place when he crashed out of the race in Jerez. It was the first time the WithU Yamaha RNF’s rider failed to finish in his debut season.