Democratic Alliance (DA) leader John Steenhuisen on Sunday arrived in Ukraine in the western city of Lviv, to embark on what he called “a six-day tour” of the war ravished country.  Steenhuisen announced his arrival in an audio clip on Twitter.  The DA leader said his visit was to ascertain “for myself the situation in a country that has been under siege from the Russian army”. “Over the course of the next week I will be visiting refugee camps as well as meeting with various mayors, governors, business leaders, students and ordinary Ukrainian citizens to see, first-hand, the effects of the Russian invasion and the ongoing occupation of parts of Ukraine,” Steenhuisen said.  ALSO READ: Russia threatens to seize assets of ‘hostile’ countries for its own development Thousands have been killed and millions forced to flee their homes since the Russian invasion of its pro-Western neighbour began on 24 February. Steenhuisen said, “we owe it to the people of Ukraine to tell the unfiltered truth about what is taking place there so that the world can stand united in bringing this injustice to an end”. “In the era of fake news and propaganda, this is the only way to truly know what has happened.” Russia’s invasion of Ukraine was not a European problem, but a global problem, Steenhuisen added. “The knock-on effect of this war on our own fuel, maize, cooking oil and fertiliser prices will reach deep into the pockets of poor South Africans who can already not make ends meet. “We dare not pretend that this is a war that has nothing to do with us. And we dare not pretend that remaining ‘neutral’ in this situation is admirable.  “When we have clear and undeniable evidence of injustice, we owe it to the victims to pick a side and speak out,” he said. The DA has been clear on its stance against Russia’s military action and urged the ANC government to take a “decisive stand” over the raging war. The official opposition party has called on government to publicly condemn Russia since the war started, accusing it of “flip-flopping” on its stance. Steehuisen said he would provide regular updates to the media about his visit.  UKRAINE LIVE UPDATES: Putin allies wonder if UK or US should be attacked next