The British Council South Africa is investing in aspiring candidates wanting to complete the IELTS test, by giving away 1,000 free Road to IELTS vouchers (valued at $80 each). These vouchers provide candidates with free preparation materials making it easier for them to achieve their desired scores. IELTS is the leading English proficiency test for immigrating to the United Kingdom, Australia, United States, Canada and New Zealand. Whether for work, study or immigration, IELTS ensures that candidates have the language ability to be productive in their destination country.  But passing the test is about more than just being able to speak, read and write English. Even those with the necessary ability to pass the test, in theory, could be tripped up if they arrive unprepared. Misunderstanding the IELTS time constraints, not knowing the types of questions they’ll be asked or lacking suitable guidance on how to answer a particular type of question, are potential challenges. “This initiative from British Council South Africa will help candidates prepare better so that they can achieve the scores they need,” says Balvinder Singh Kandra, Director Examinations – Southern Africa Cluster at British Council.  Road to IELTS is the British Council’s comprehensive, 100% online and most popular IELTS preparation program.  “Candidates can access over 300 interactive activities, 13 advisory videos and tutorials and 40 practice tests. Road to IELTS Premium provides everything you need to maximise use of the preparation resources to get to the next step of your career,” Kandra says. One challenge is that candidates sometimes book IELTS with little notice. “We hope that the Road to IELTS preparation will encourage people to book IELTS further in advance. Candidates who book for IELTS via the British Council get exclusive access to the Road to IELTS Last Minute Version for free only with the British Council,” says Kandra. IELTS is the world’s leading English language test for study, migration and work. Millions of tests are taken every year. IELTS is accepted by more than 11,000 organisations, including universities, schools, professional bodies, employers and immigration authorities around the world. To learn more about IELTS follow this link: www.takeielts.org. The British Council is one of the co-owners of IELTS and delivers the test in over 800 countries. We build connections, understanding and trust between people in the UK and other countries through arts and culture, education and the English language. We work on the ground in more than 100 countries. In 2019-20 we connected with 80 million people directly and with 791 million people overall, including online and through our broadcasts and publications. To learn more about the British Council’s work please follow the link (www.britishcouncil.org).