British airline Virgin Atlantic has announced that it will be resuming flights between London Heathrow and Cape Town International Airport. Virgin Airlines Sir Richard Branson, announced the reopening of the Cape Town to London route from November 5, at an event in Cape Town on Saturday. The announcement was also shared by Cape Town mayor Geordin Hill-Lewis and MMC for Economic Growth and Tourism James Vos.  “Guess who’s flying to Cape Town daily again? Welcome back Virgin Atlantic! What a pleasure to celebrate this announcement with Richard Branson and Alan Winde this evening,” Hill-Lewis tweeted. His excitement was shared by Vos. “Virgin Atlantic announces the reintroduction of its Cape Town to London Heathrow route. This route will add 80,000 seats between Cape Town and London.” According to EWN, Virgin Atlantic halted direct flights between London and Cape Town in 2015 new Home Affairs immigration regulations. However, the airline resumed flights in February 2020 before the aviation industry was grounded due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan has defended the decision to privatise struggling South African Airways (SAA). This comes after the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) threatened to take legal action against the government over the sale of 51% of SAA to Takatso Consortium. Malema suggested that the sale of SAA was part of a plan by government to privatise all the state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in the country. “There is absolutely no rationality in selling off an airline for R51 to people who are linked to and controlled by the white capitalist establishment,” said Malema. “We will do everything in our power to reverse the sale of SAA because it is evident that all state-owned companies will first be made to not function well, and thereafter given for free to the white capitalist establishment.” Government’s plans to sell a stake in SAA to Takatso was announced after the airline was forced into business rescue in December 2019.  ALSO READ: Pravin Gordhan defends decision to privatise struggling SAA