Here is your daily news update. Click on the links below for the full story or visit our home page for the latest news.       The management of the South African Police Service (Saps) says Advocate Malesela Teffo was aware that a warrant of arrest had been issued against him for missing several of his court appearances after being charged with common assault and trespassing. The police’s top management also maintains that the group of police officers from the Saps’ Tactical Response Team (TRT), who arrested Teffo in a dramatic fashion at the Pretoria High Court on Thursday, were simply doing their job in order to secure his attendance in court. Teffo, the defence advocate representing four of the five accused in the Senzo Meyiwa murder trial, was arrested inside the high court and led away in handcuffs in front of television cameras, just after proceedings in the Meyiwa murder trial were postponed. South African mining tycoon Patrice Motsepe – who has been the richest Black man in southern Africa since 2008 – has officially been dethroned by Strive Masiyiwa. Motsepe founded Future Mining in 1994 and purchased gold mines from AngloGold under favourable finance terms three years later. Zimbabwean businessman Strive Masiyiwa, 61, increased his net worth to US$1.7 billion (approximately R27 billion) as of January 2022. The fourth volume of the state capture report which was released on Friday addressed the capture of Eskom and the attempted capture of the National Treasury. It also included findings on dodgy dealings between business technology solutions company EOH and the City of Johannesburg, the closure of Gupta bank accounts, the Free State Asbestos project, and the R1 billion housing project. Residents are furious with the uThukela District Municipality for having to go without water for a seemingly indefinite period of time, reports Northern Natal News. Areas that continue to be affected are Ezakheni, Acaciavale, Hillside, Aloe Park and surrounds.  Earlier in the week, uThukela spokesperson Jabulani Mkhonza commented that the water supply would be restored by Friday night (April 29). However, residents woke up to ‘dry taps’ once again on Saturday morning. Excuses being bandied around by uThukela include silt build-up and repairs at the water treatment works, but residents say this is unacceptable. Convicted murderer and Paralympian Oscar Pistorius’ lawyer claims his bid to be released on early parole is apparently being “unfairly” stalled by the refusal of Reeva Steenkamp’s parents to meet him in person. Pistorius’ lawyer, Julian Knight, has accused June and Barry Steenkamp of a “deliberate attempt to punish him and frustrate the process” in an interview with The Times newspaper. Pistorius was sentenced to 13 years in prison for the murder of his then-girlfriend on Valentine’s Day in 2013. Steenkamp was shot and killed through the door of a locked bathroom cubicle inside Pistorius’ home in Silverlakes, east of Pretoria. He claimed he mistook her for an intruder on the night. Kaizer Chiefs have been thrown into a crisis and the club’s management will have to take a close look into the situation with the team losing its fourth game in a row on Saturday afternoon.  Amakhosi went into Saturday’s DStv Premiership fixture against Cape Town City at FNB Stadium having last won on April 2. They have since drawn one and lost four as their campaign suffers further knocks.  City settled faster into the game and started dictating it, and showing a little more ambition going forward. Their efforts were rewarded in the 15th minute, benefitting from another defensive blunder on the Chiefs side.  Popular award-winning electronic house duo Black Motion, consisting of Bongani Mohosana, known as Murdah Bongz and Thabo Smol are not going their separate ways.  The confirmation comes after gossip blogger, Musa Khawula reported on Friday evening that the music group was done and will be no more.  Khawula shared several tweets providing “evidence” of Black Motion’s spilt such as Murdah Bongz now performing as a solo act known as “Morda”. Fans quickly assumed the “split” was due to Bongz’s relationship with DJ Zinhle as the couple shares a child together.  However, Black Motion released a statement on Saturday confirming Murdah Bongz had changed his artist name to Morda as he prepares for his solo career, but the band has not parted ways.  ALSO READ: Daily news update: State capture report, Covid-19 fifth wave and R350 grant