Toyota South Africa Motors (TSAM) has reiterated that none of its employees will lose their jobs as the company implements a systematic phased plan to return its Prospectant plant to working conditions. Toyota said the recent deadly KwaZulu-Natal floods caused extensive damage to the facility. The company said it is likely to lose around 45 000 units in production but has been encouraged by a series of small gains in its recovery process. Toyota clarified that the safety and welfare of its employees remains a key priority. “The majority of Toyota employees fall under the NBF and, as such, payment is governed by the rules of the NBF, where 50% of wages are paid where there is no work.” However, Toyota said as it did during the Covid-19 lockdown, it will endeavour to improve employee earnings by bringing in employees on a rotational basis to assist in clean up and restoration activities, working with the Government to provide temporary relief measures (UIF benefits) and requested financial institutions, with whom employees have loans, for a 3-month payment holiday among other benefits. “None of the TSAM employees will lose their jobs, and they will receive support from the company throughout the process.” Toyota said it is also working with local NGOs to use its employees to provide community support and clean up. “Employees who volunteer for such activities will be paid by TSAM. It is hoped that the combination of these above initiatives will ensure no loss of income to all our employees.” Toyota also clarified that all the vehicles that incurred damage from the plant will be scrapped and crushed so that no potentially compromised Toyotas will ever make it into the retail chain.   “About 12% of the (4 596) complexly built-up units on site had no damage at all and can be sold.” Toyota said it has also partnered with a few corporates and the Gift of the Givers to assist communities in the South Basin with basic necessities and clothing. ALSO READ: KZN Floods: Samsung launches campaign to assist flood victims