It was only after being told that “actions speak louder than words” that the Sharks managed to put together a focused second half, keeping the ball through several phases, to pile pressure on Connacht and eventually hammer them 41-21 in their United Rugby Championship match at Kings Park. A messy, error-strewn first half saw the Sharks trailing 10-21 at the break, but they were inspired in the third quarter, scoring three tries in 14 minutes to settle the contest. ALSO READ: Sharks crush Connacht in URC battle: Four talking points “Things didn’t go our way in the first half,” coach Sean Everitt said. “It was strange, there were a lot of penalties and not much ball-in-play. There were a lot of errors by both teams in the first 10 minutes. “It was difficult for us to get going, but halftime gave us the opportunity to regroup and have a good, honest talk. We said actions are bigger than words. “The guys settled down then and got the job done. The second forty was much better and we did not want to disappoint the big crowd that came to support us,” Everitt said. Fassi shines again Aphelele Fassi was particularly rampant after the break, starting with a superb 50/22 kick that provided the territory for centre Marius Louw’s try. Just four minutes later, the fullback brilliantly gathered an up-and-under and then roared clear on counter-attack, into the Connacht 22 and again providing the platform for a try, this time by hooker Bongi Mbonambi. Everitt clearly rates the 24-year-old Fassi highly. “If you kick well then you often get a kick back and then there’s a counter-attacking opportunity. That brings Aphelele into the game and he is really dangerous. He has great feet and can really open up the game,” Everitt said. Frustrated Friend Connacht coach Andy Friend admitted his frustration at his team’s second-half collapse. “You could see the Sharks power come through, but unfortunately we also gave them some loose kicks and loose ball and that allows their potent back three to cut you open,” Friend said. “That allowed them to build pressure and momentum. There have been too many occasions through the year where we’ve had multiple scores against us in quick succession.”