Oftentimes, the destinations and locations seen in your favourite movies seem too mystical and magical to be true. More so with the fast advancing world of technology and computer-generated imagery (CGI), but believe it or not, some of your favourite memorable movie locations do exist and you can visit them if you would like. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Laagna road, also known as Laagna tee is a busy freeway in Talinn which connects the city center with Lasnamagi.  The best way to see the freeway properly and marvel at its unique structure is to stand on one of the several bridges that cross the road or hop on one of the buses that frequent the highway. This location is well-known as it is featured in the car chase scene on a very popular Tenet.  During filming of the scene, the highway was closed off, and many locals were cast as stunt drivers for the scene. Husavik is a stunning town in the Norðurþing municipality situated on the north coast of Iceland on the shores of Skjálfandi bay.  Besides being known as the oldest settlement in Iceland and the largest town in the district, it is also well known for the whale watching tours in Skjálfandi Bay and is often referred to as the Whale Capital of Iceland. You may be familiar with this town as it was featured in the film Eurovision Song Contest: The Story of the Fire Saga. Not only did most of the scenes from the film take place in Husavik, but it is also the town that the characters of the film are from.  ALSO READ: ‘Doctor Strange In The Multiverse Of Madness’ – not one to watch with the kids The Banaue rice terraces are occasionally called the eighth wonder of the world which was carved into the mountains of Banaue by the ancestors of the Igorot people.  Locals believe that the terraces were built with minimal equipment, and that they were largely built by hand. This wonderful tourist attraction makes an appearance at the end of one of the most popular film series, Avengers: Infinity War, where the villain Thanos is shot in one of the caves which he was using for his retreat at the Banaue Rice Terraces. Hatley Castle is a Classified Federal Heritage Building which is currently used for the public Royal Roads University.  The historic site is well known as Professor Xavier’s School for Gifted Youngsters on the X-men movie series.. The mansion and estate is similar to the private estate of Professor Xavier, the X-mansion.