SOCCER 10 POOL OF THE DAYFriday 6 May S10 V2 Swallows slipped into the relegation standings after a midweek loss and must get something away at SuperSport United, or their troubles will get even deeper near the bottom of the DStv Premiership. More details at www.soccer6.co.za. M1 Inter Milan vs Empoli: Inter can go top of Serie A if they win but will have played one match more than AC Milan. Empoli have won once in their last 19 outings.M2 Gaziantep FK vs Kayserispor: These clubs occupy the two places above the Turkish relegation zone and both need a single point to be sure of safety.M3 Silkeborg vs Randers: Silkeborg are on a run of five successive wins and up to third in the Danish league. Randers have won their last two games, including 1-0 away at leaders FC Copenhagen.M4 SuperSport United vs Swallows FC: Swallows’ home loss to AmaZulu on Tuesday saw them drop into the second from bottom spot. SuperSport are on course to keep up their record of never having finished below eighth place since the 1999-2000 season.M5 Cambuur Leeuwarden vs RKC Waalwijk: After seven games without success, Cambuur could yet be sucked down into the Dutch league’s relegation zone. RKC moved five points clear of the drop zone on Monday when they beat Groningen 3-1 at home.M6 FC Volendam vs FC Eindhoven: Volendam have already secured second place in the Dutch second division and promotion. Eindhoven need one point to make sure of third place.M7 VfL Bochum vs Arminia Bielefeld: Bochum pulled off an upset 4-3 win away at second placed Borussia Dortmund last weekend. Bielefeld must win their last two games of the Bundesliga if they are to stand any chance of avoiding relegation.M8 Genoa vs Juventus: Four defeats in their last five games has Genoa third from bottom in Serie A. Juventus have confirmed they will finish top four in Serie A and play in the Champions League next season.M9 Levante vs Real Sociedad: Levante are bottom of La Liga but can still save their status. They have won eight of 14 previous visits by Sociedad.M10 Lille vs Monaco: Outgoing French champions Lille have lost three of their last four games but Monaco are on a seven match winning streak. Suggested permutation:R16.00 1 x 1,2 x 1 x 1,2 x 1 x 1 x 2,3 x 3 x 3 x 1