What should have been former Greys Anatomy star, Jesse Williams’s star role in a broadway play, unfortunately, hasn’t been, as all the attention of his onstage performances is on a particular part of his body.  The actor currently goes full frontal in a broadway show titled “Take Me Out,” however a theatregoer somehow managed to record a video of a nude scene and posted it on social media for the masses to ogle over.  The video has been duplicated, screenshot and reposted thousands of times. The actor hasn’t responded to the viral clip, however Second Stage Theatre spoke out after the leak.  The theatre company says the play created a phone-free space with locked phone cases at all the performances.  “We are appalled that this policy has been violated and unauthorised footage of our acting company has been posted.  “It is deeply unfortunate that one audience member chose to disrespect the production, their fellow audience members, and, most importantly the cast in this matter. Taking naked pictures of anyone without their consent is highly objectionable and can have to serve legal consequences.” They called the actions of the attendee who posted the pictures online as a “gross and unacceptable violation of trust between the actor and audience forged in the theatre community.”  pic.twitter.com/jqlPDhQS7k— Second Stage Theater (@2STNYC) May 10, 2022 Memes and commentary were all over social media with netizens having a field day with Williams’ nude leaks.  *getting on twitter and searching Jesse Williams name like* pic.twitter.com/dhmYsnSySh— . (@thebrattyvirgo) May 9, 2022 Driving to NY to see Jesse Williams on Broadway as we speak. pic.twitter.com/fhFUF9xT5c— Clifford Thomas (@Crimson_Cliff) May 10, 2022 To whomever snuck that video of Jesse Williams…..not all heroes wear capes. #JesseWilliams pic.twitter.com/U3bHtHns2T— SONTIA (@IMASIZESEXY) May 10, 2022 The topic of Jesse Williams raises the question of other celebs whose nudes have also been leaked online.  Prince Kaybee After admitting to cheating on his girlfriend on Twitter, the music producer intended to take legal action against his side chick “Hazel” as she refers to herself on the platform, for publicly sharing his private nudes. The hitmaker was in an uncomfortable spot when Hazel also shared their private conversations. Malusi Gigaba  The former minister has made headlines for his private life more often than his political work.  From cheating scandals to his divorce to estranged wife Norma Gigaba, Malusi’s sex video was leaked in 2016. The politician claimed the leak was extortion as his phone was hacked.   Chris Evans Social media users were happily surprised when Captain America actor Chris Evans mistakenly leaked his own nude pictures, as neticitizens went into a frenzy over the picture.  He accidentally posted a nude to his Instagram story in September 2020.  Following the incident, the actor took to Twitter with an important message to fans. “Now that I have your attention … VOTE Nov 3rd!”